Confirmatory protocol v23
Prepared 2026-10-05. Not registered, admitted, executed, or empirically passed.

Machine-readable specification: data/confirmatory_v23/protocol.json.
The sample size, estimands, practical effect threshold, risk limit, analysis,
budget caps and adaptation rules below are fixed now. The cohort, references,
runtime and working method/comparator still need admission before a run freeze.
This replaces the provisional future-study numerical choices in the v21 local
empirical contract; it does not alter historical inputs or unfavorable results.

1. The claim to test

At a common resource budget and common declared history-risk ceiling, does the
proposed acquisition method increase supported complete-answer yield against
the strongest eligible development-selected comparator? The target scope is
financial disclosure QA over an explicitly admitted finite source universe.
The method must demonstrate residual need after competent typed/DTS/label and
structural filtering on development data before this comparison starts. A
dimension census or programmed first-candidate baseline does not establish it.

The confirmatory design uses 200 NEW independent issuer/corporate-history
components, six questions per component, hence 1,200 scheduled questions per
arm. One component can contain several filings, amendments and questions. It
cannot count as several independent observations. A second ticker, new date,
paraphrase or issuer subsidiary does not produce another independent history.

For each history, prewrite two answerable single-filing questions, two answerable
cross-filing joint-answer questions and two well-specified insufficient-evidence
questions. All requested scope and comparison relations count in joint scoring.
Missing evidence is not an incorrect candidate's refutation. Insufficient items
must reflect the admitted source universe, not hidden typed fields or an answer
which the experimental pack deliberately removed. Deliberate premise-removal
controls remain a separately labeled development mechanism study.

These quotas define an enriched research task distribution. They do not estimate
the prevalence of natural financial-user question types. A reference team may
reject a history for failure to instantiate the six slots, but must log the
reason before any model prediction. It may not reject because typed filtering
already solves it, because the proposed model loses, or because a question is
too difficult. There is no minimum number of certificate wins to recruit.

2. Source frame, exclusions and sampling

The existing Multi-doc-2025 metadata listing has only 89 distinct ticker prefixes.
It cannot supply 200 new independent issuers. No sufficient new frame has yet
been enumerated, so the study is currently blocked at recruitment, not running.

The candidate new frame is SEC annual 10-K histories: two consecutive fiscal-year
original reports accepted between 2023-01-01 and 2025-12-31 UTC. Enumerate English
reports from metadata first, pin accession identities and raw source hashes, and
declare all included amendments, exhibits, permitted links and cutoffs. The
exact admitted finite source universe must precede question construction. No
historical-availability claim follows from a current live page or an accession
date alone. A new frame's redistribution/access rules also require admission.

Canonicalize issuer and connected corporate components using source identities.
Merge controlled subsidiaries, shared target transactions and overlapping
source-derived histories. Freeze the metadata frame and exposure inventory.
Rank components by SHA256 of UTF-8
  WikiGraphRag-confirmation-v23-20261005|CANONICAL_COMPONENT_ID
and inspect in that order. Two independent reference annotators assess objective
eligibility and references; take the first 200 admissible components before any
arm produces predictions. Preserve every candidate's rank and exclusion reason.
Metadata listing alone does not constitute answer-content exposure.

The machine-readable protocol incorporates 89 known issuer/entity exposure
records, with sources, aliases and reasons. This includes the 45 identifiable
QA-preview tickers recorded in the v14 exclusion ledger, prior corporate and
product histories, exposed counterparties, named discovery leads, and all six
current filing issuers: PFE, NFLX, NVDA, LLY, BRK-B and SLB. Importantly, it does
not mistake the old absence of consecutive-year files for content exposure.
Additional previously inspected names without a unique issuer mapping and old
noncorporate groups remain explicit unresolved exclusions. Resolve aliases by
identity, not ticker string equality. Union all later development exposures
into this inventory before the cohort is sealed. The repository has an explicit
unresolved warning about unidentified old DocFinQA preview issuers; this screen
does not certify zero pretraining or all prior-content contamination.

All versions of the current twelve filings remain development. The v23 reader
controls and proposed source probes also remain development. If 200 eligible
components cannot be recruited, record that shortfall and stop before prediction.
Do not fill the deficit with repeated issuers, relax the count silently, or
replace an issuer after learning any arm's prediction. Any changed study design
requires a new dated protocol before its predictions.

3. Gates, references and the final run freeze

Prerequisites are sequential:
  - Source audit establishes a referenceable residual problem after strong typed
    and structural baselines, including the cross-filing correspondence question.
  - The preliminary v23 typed-control reader screen passes: 100 complete and
    100 deliberately insufficient items;
    at least 90 jointly correct complete answers, at least 45/50 in each complete
    extraction/difference stratum, zero substantive emissions on insufficient
    inputs, and all 200 outputs satisfy the frozen schema. Those are descriptive
    control checks; six reused issuer histories do not provide 200 independent
    observations. The old 2/8 result is not the new screen. Even a perfect typed
    score NEVER authorizes a natural retrieval comparison: these are authored
    reported-aspect templates and designed record-removal controls.
  - After a real residual task is admitted, a NEWLY VERSIONED task-matched
    natural reader gate must pass on about 100 complete-source-evidence and
    100 insufficient-source-evidence development items. Freeze model, prompt,
    decoder, arithmetic and numerical pass rules before constructing those items;
    seal source-rendered inputs and reviewed references before predictions. This
    natural gate is currently unfilled;
    do not substitute the typed-control scores or quietly relabel their inputs.
  - Natural-question proposal and verifier pilot passes its separately frozen
    class-recall and false-elimination tests on those natural development items.
    The current 200 typed controls cannot qualify for this semantic gate. The
    prospective development criteria are 200 qualified independent reference
    reviews, at least 100 nonempty-class items, micro class recall >= 0.95,
    full-class coverage on >= 0.95 of nonempty-reference items, zero reviewed
    false candidate eliminations and review of every emitted refutation. These
    are engineering checks, not calibrated population risk bounds. Zero emitted
    refutations provide no verification-error opportunity and cannot establish
    verifier success. Proposal development readiness cannot clear an automatic
    coverage gate or authorize the comparison; full component evidence is still
    required. The semantic protocol owns the exact counters. No natural pilot
    predictions or outcomes exist yet.
  - An external source-coverage decision and fail-closed gate are implemented
    and audited. Beam saturation, confidence, candidate count and local solver
    optimality cannot authorize coverage. Human coverage review, if used, must
    be reported as human-assisted and charged identically across relevant arms.
  - Working methods, operating thresholds, references and resource policy pass
    the final artifact freeze and independent admission review.

Two independent human annotators inspect complete admitted source context and
write references before predictions, followed by adjudication. References must
include complete equivalent answers, feasible answer-changing classes, conflicts,
all material support/refutation relations, alternative conjunctive witnesses,
source locators and hashes. Record disagreements and unresolved cases. A finite
source audit is an operational coverage reference, not universal completeness.
Model-generated preliminary references may assist drafting but are not human
gold and cannot be silently promoted to it. Annotators and graders must not see
method identities or system outputs while constructing the references.

Seal manifests for sources, cohort, schedule, questions, references, all code,
models, tokenizer, prompts, arithmetic tools, decoder, hardware/runtime, seeds,
budget and grading rubric before the first prediction. Keep reference-only files
out of the inference process. Test raw request/response and source-access trace
recovery, including a second durable copy, before starting the campaign. The
prepared protocol has explicit null fields for missing artifacts. It is not a
completed preregistration or authorization to ignore those fields.

4. Comparator and fairness

Implement and develop these competent baseline families:
  - Typed aspect filtering with a natural-question parser and admitted full DTS,
    taxonomy labels, identities, units and structural mappings.
  - Hybrid/reranked retrieval with table/section closure.
  - Generic complementary-evidence acquisition with a strong sufficiency rule.
  - A strong larger-context structural reader within the same total budget.

Select one primary comparator before confirmation: highest development
history-level supported yield among competent baselines meeting the same risk
and resource gates; break exact ties by lower full model-input-token cost, then
lexicographic baseline ID. Its implementation and thresholds are then fixed.
No eligible competent baseline means the primary comparison remains blocked.
Other comparisons, ablations and budget points are exploratory unless separately
registered with multiplicity control before results. Never choose the weakest
baseline after looking at confirmation outcomes.

For the controlled acquisition comparison share source universe, natural question,
initial evidence/metadata, observed candidate pool, available actions, verifier,
external coverage and answer-acceptance gate, strong reader and scoring. Provide
every admitted typed/DTS fact and mapping equally. Report a natural end-to-end
arm separately when proposal differs; do not attribute that difference solely
to acquisition. A sufficiency method paired with a weaker acceptance rule is
not a fair acquisition comparison. Human annotations are references, not free
oracle inputs to the proposed automatic policy.

The fixed primary per-question budget is at most 65,536 cumulative model input
tokens, 8,192 cumulative output tokens and eight model calls. Each model context
is at most 32,768 tokens, including the relevant generated context. All proposal,
policy scoring, coverage, verification, reader and retry calls count. Tokenize
actual templates with the shared frozen tokenizer; cached input still counts
as actual input exposure, with cache savings reported separately. Shared index,
parser and initial source-inventory costs are recorded for both methods.

Maintain separate ledgers for source accesses/bytes, model tokens, preprocessing
and complete wall time, peak memory, index amortization, cache reuse and human
review time. These caps match resource ceilings, not every realized cost, and do
not collapse unlike resources into an unjustified scalar. Expose actual costs.
Any budget overrun receives zero supported-yield credit, retains all emissions
for risk grading, and blocks confirmatory run admission. The statistical module
does not itself verify cost ledgers or semantic grades.

5. Fixed primary analysis

For issuer history i and arm m, let Y_im be the fraction of its six scheduled
questions receiving a jointly correct, fully supported substantive answer.
Abstentions, technical failures and unattempted scheduled cells receive zero
supported-yield credit. Let D_i = Y_i,proposed - Y_i,comparator. The primary effect
estimate is mean(D_i), giving every history equal weight, regardless of source
size or number of filings. Six questions are never treated as six iid samples.

Primary effect conditions BOTH must hold:
  1. mean(D_i) >= 0.05 (five percentage points observed practical improvement).
  2. mean(D_i) - t_0.95,199 * sample_sd(D_i)/sqrt(200) > 0.

The second is a one-sided 95% paired-history Student t confidence bound. These
bounded discrete differences are not normally distributed in general. With
200 independent exchangeable history components the interval is an asymptotic
approximation, not a finite-sample distribution-free guarantee. Common market,
source-family and taxonomy dependence can limit that approximation; report the
scope and observed sector composition. Zero empirical variance blocks inferential
superiority in this implementation; report descriptive results and investigate
on development data, never select another test after seeing that outcome.

A fixed sensitivity analysis resamples the 200 paired histories, with replacement,
10,000 times using Python random.Random(230519), sorts bootstrap mean differences,
and reports order statistic 500 as its one-sided lower percentile. It is neither
a substitute primary confidence method nor an opportunity to select a favorable
interval. The primary decision stays with the t rule. Report discordance.

For each arm define Z_im = 1 if any of the six scheduled outputs contains an
unsupported material substantive emission. Lost or unaudited outputs count as
unsafe for the gate, separately from observed unsupported emissions. An explicit
audited absence of any output has no observed emission, but its technical failure
still stays in the yield denominator and failure report. A malformed response
with a substantive claim must be graded, not relabeled as a safe abstention.

Unsupported means unsupported AS AN ANSWER TO THE REQUESTED QUESTION, including
wrong value, sign/scale, entity, period, unit, population, dimensions, source
version or material comparison relation. A source-entailing number assigned to
the wrong requested scope is an unsupported answer, even if that citation is
accurate about another scope. A false or ungrounded material claim is unsafe.
Joint correctness is stricter than absence of unsupported claims: an explicitly
incomplete answer can contain only valid, correctly scoped claims yet fail to
answer every requested slot. Such an omission has joint_correct=false and may
have unsupported=false. This distinction must be independently adjudicated; a
wrong numerical or scoped answer cannot evade risk by citing an unrelated true
fact. An unattempted cell cannot emit a claim; output_audited=true is allowed
only when a preserved no-call/no-output receipt establishes that absence.

For each of the two primary arms, the one-sided 95% Clopper-Pearson upper bound
for sum(Z_im) successes in 200 Bernoulli histories must be <= 0.05. This is exact
under the independent, identically distributed history sampling assumption.
For zero unsafe histories the bound is 1 - 0.05^(1/200), approximately 0.01487.
Four unsafe histories give about 0.04518 and pass; five give about 0.05184 and
fail. This is a HISTORY-level any-unsupported-emission probability for six items.
It is not a guarantee that the per-answer selective error rate is below 5%.

Report answer rate A/N, joint error mass E/N, selective joint error E/A,
unsupported-emission mass, and selective unsupported fraction separately.
Selective rates are undefined when A=0, never reported as zero. A history risk
bound implies a bound on average unsupported-question mass under the same fixed
six-item design, but conditioning on answered questions introduces a different
denominator and is not controlled by that claim. No claim of exactly equal
observed risks between arms is made; both must meet the same declared ceiling.

The joint primary decision requires practical effect, superiority and BOTH risk
gates. This is an intersection-union decision: if any required null is true,
passing the conjunction requires falsely rejecting that null at its component
level. Thus no Bonferroni penalty is needed for this single conjunctive claim,
to the extent that the approximate t component has its stated size. It does not
yield simultaneous 95% coverage for all reported intervals or license multiple
comparators, optional budgets or alternative success endpoints.

The five-point threshold is an observed practical threshold. It is not a claim
that the confidence lower bound exceeds five points. The 200-history choice is
a fixed feasible recruitment target, not a demonstrated power calculation.
Estimate power only from disjoint development history variability before any
confirmation prediction; record it honestly. At a true effect exactly equal to
the observed five-point threshold, the point-estimate condition alone can limit
power near one half. No promised power is asserted. Any sample-size amendment
must be separately versioned before the final cohort/prediction freeze, not
triggered by confirmatory significance, errors or apparent near misses.

6. Failures, amendments and implementation

All scheduled cells remain: completed, failed, unattempted or blocked. Finish the
frozen campaign or preserve the stop and reason; no significance-based stopping.
No test-case replacement, post-outcome threshold retuning, prompt repair, reader
swap, policy bug fix or label rewrite may make the same cohort a fresh test.
A needed fix may be implemented immediately on development in a new version,
retaining all prior outputs and results. A failed confirmation remains failed.
A revised confirmatory method requires an independently new issuer cohort and
new pre-prediction freeze. Repairing an identified reference error requires blind
adjudication and preservation of the original score; material reference changes
invalidate confirmation rather than silently repairing the primary outcome.

The portable analyzer consumes 1,200 paired item records with history_id,
issuer_id, item_id, and proposed/comparator outcomes. Each outcome contains:
  emitted, joint_correct, unsupported, output_audited (strict booleans),
  status (completed, technical_failure, or unattempted).
Identifiers must be canonical, not merely renamed aliases. The module enforces
200 unique issuer IDs with exactly six items each, rejects duplicates/invalid
grades, and reports per-history results and conservative missing-output risk.
Semantic grading, true independence, exposure screening, cost compliance and
artifact chronology remain separate admission obligations. Passing this script
alone never declares an empirically confirmed claim.

From acl2027_temporal_state, with Python 3.11+ and scipy==1.17.0:
  PYTHONDONTWRITEBYTECODE=1 PYTHONPATH=src python3 -m unittest discover -s tests -p 'test_study_analysis_v23.py' -v

After a real sealed and graded run (the referenced file is not yet available):
  PYTHONDONTWRITEBYTECODE=1 PYTHONPATH=src python3 -m temporal_state.study_analysis_v23 /absolute/run/sealed_grades.json --output /absolute/run/new_analysis.json

Input schema: {"records": [the 1,200 paired item objects]}. The output file must
not exist. The analyzer records input/code hashes and SciPy runtime version.
Rows and outcomes permit exactly the documented fields; preserve raw responses,
cost ledgers and source receipts separately and bind them in the run manifest.
Current tests use authored rows solely to check statistics and gate mechanics;
they are neither recruited histories nor an empirical outcome or power study.

Primary implementation references (access checked 2026-10-05):
Clopper, C. J., and Pearson, E. S. (1934). The Use of Confidence or Fiducial Limits
Illustrated in the Case of the Binomial. Biometrika 26(4), 404-413.
  https://doi.org/10.1093/biomet/26.4.404
SciPy official Student t and beta distribution documentation:
  https://docs.scipy.org/doc/scipy/reference/generated/scipy.stats.t.html
  https://docs.scipy.org/doc/scipy/reference/generated/scipy.stats.beta.html
The intersection-union justification above is given directly; its conjunction
logic does not turn an approximate t component into an exact test.
