v0.5 correction-policy cache boundary

Purpose and evidence level

The correction cache is an immutable, inference-only wrapper around an existing
v0.4 FrozenScoredInput and a CorrectionPolicy. It freezes the source prefix,
candidate alternatives, scores, temporal claims, aliases, authority attributions,
correction references, and essential support dependencies before any decoder or
question is run. It does not extract candidates, estimate scores, establish
source authority, certify reference entailment, or demonstrate model accuracy.

The base candidate/scorer provenance and correction-policy provenance are
separate. A source-derived correction annotation does not turn authored base
scores into model scores. The two-argument factory explicitly labels its policy
as authored_diagnostic. No model execution is implied.

Public API

  FrozenCorrectionInput(base, policy, provenance, digest)
  make_correction_cache(base, policy, correction_provenance=None)
  correction_cache_digest(cache)
  dump_correction_cache(cache, path)
  load_correction_cache(path)

The frozen wrapper exposes .base, .policy, .provenance and .digest. Nested maps
are read-only; policy records and evidence spans are frozen dataclasses inside
tuples. Construction defensively copies both inputs through canonical JSON and
validates the reconstructed objects. Digest recomputation also revalidates the
entire object, rejecting manually forged dataclass wrappers.

Lineage and version preservation

The outer schema is 0.5. Its base_cache object is exactly the existing v0.4
canonical cache serialization, including its original digest. The base_digest
field separately records that lineage. The correction_policy_digest hashes only
the serialized policy. The outer digest hashes the complete outer payload,
including both nested records, their hashes and the annotation provenance.

The serializer reuses the v0.4 payload builder and validator without modifying
scored_io.py. Loading and then dumping the nested base produces the same bytes
as dumping that original base directly. Changes to policy or its provenance
therefore create a new v0.5 digest while leaving the v0.4 digest unchanged.
Existing v0.4 files and caches are neither rewritten nor migrated in place.

The digest records tuple order, including evidence span order, and all actual
source text and source metadata inherited from the base. It is an integrity
mechanism, not a signature, authenticity guarantee, or proof of historical
availability. An authorized author can create another valid cache with changed
content; that cache has a distinct identity and must be reported separately.

Policy declarations

SourceAuthority(source_id, authority_id, evidence_spans) attributes a publisher
authority using exact source text. Every source reference must occur in the
eligible base prefix. Authority labels are supplied annotations. A URL, domain,
document title, or hash never creates authority automatically. Empty authority
policies remain empty even for apparently official source URLs.

CorrectionEvidence(link_id, reference_span, action='replace',
coverage='whole_assertion') supplies an explicit source reference for one
CORRECTS candidate link. The quote and offsets must exactly match the correcting
source and the link's recorded reference offsets. This version supports only
whole-assertion replacement. Partial corrections and retractions require a later
explicit design and are rejected instead of being treated as full replacements.

SupportDependency(dependent_claim_id, prerequisite_claim_id, evidence_spans)
declares essential factual dependence. Its exact evidence belongs to the
dependent claim's source. Both claim IDs must exist among candidate readings;
the prerequisite source cannot be later than the dependent source. Dependencies
must be acyclic. These are conjunctive prerequisites, not an assertion that all
context sources are essential or that two matching claims share a derivation.

Missing correction certificates and missing authority attributions are allowed
structurally. Such candidates remain visible in the unchanged base graph. The
correction-aware semantic layer rejects selecting an uncertified CORRECTS link;
the cache loader neither deletes that link nor invents a certificate. Malformed
certificates, unknown references and duplicate policy records are input errors.
This distinction preserves explicit uncertainty without permitting silent
unsupported overwrites.

Provenance fields

The exact correction_provenance schema is:

  evidence_type
  policy_builder_id
  policy_builder_revision
  prompt_sha256
  config_sha256
  policy_description

Allowed evidence_type values are authored_diagnostic, source_derived_annotation,
and pinned_model_annotation. The default authored diagnostic has null builder,
revision and prompt hash and a documented default-configuration hash. Source-
derived annotations require a nonempty builder ID and prompt SHA-256; an
unpinned conversational annotator may have a null revision. Pinned-model
annotations additionally require an explicit nonfloating builder revision.
Floating labels including main, latest, master, unknown and unversioned fail.
All configuration and non-null prompt hashes are lowercase SHA-256 strings.
An asserted model revision is recorded provenance, not independent evidence that
the model actually ran; the experiment must retain its execution records.

Strictness and leakage boundary

The reader rejects duplicate JSON object keys, nonfinite numbers, missing or
unknown fields at every new schema level, invalid types, stale outer or inner
hashes, empty/inexact spans, boolean offsets, unknown source/link/claim
references, duplicate declarations, and unsupported versions or operations.
The unchanged v0.4 validator also checks all its schemas, source hashes,
eligible cutoffs, candidate/claim bindings, projected dates and aliases.

There are no question, answer, or gold-label fields. This is a strict schema
boundary rather than a claim that arbitrary free text could never contain such
information. The producer must still be isolated from evaluation labels. The
cache code itself imports no evaluation module and reads no QA annotations.

Verification

tests/test_correction_io.py contains 22 tests. They cover canonical byte-for-byte
v0.4 round trips, defensive copying, nested immutability, three independent hash
checks, forged wrappers, duplicate and nonfinite JSON, unknown fields, exact
spans, source/claim/link references, uncertified candidates, unsupported partial
operations, future-source rejection even after resigning all hashes, provenance
requirements, and policy/provenance changes with preserved base lineage.

Command:
  PYTHONPATH=src python -m unittest discover -s tests -p test_correction_io.py -v

All 22 passed during implementation. These are implementation integrity checks,
not empirical correction-extraction results or evidence of a joint-decoding
advantage.
