Cross-filing source probe v23
============================

Decision
--------
This bounded probe does not open a comparative text/table retrieval study.
All six literal two-filing reporting questions resolve with typed values and
primary-statement structure. Of two separately frozen explanation follow-ups,
Pfizer is explained by the ordinary statement-footnote baseline; Berkshire's
specific cause remains unproven within the review budget. There is no observed
advantage for a new retrieval policy and no completed reader-competence gate.

Both protocols were frozen before inspecting their respective outcomes. The
second probe was adaptively selected from the two differences found in the
first; this selection is disclosed and remains development work. The original
twelve exposed filings remain development. No questions, histories or measures
were replaced to obtain a favorable outcome. No QA-model calls were made.

Six reporting questions
-----------------------
Question: what consolidated total revenue for the earlier fiscal year is
displayed in each of the two primary income/operations statements, preserving
the source version, row label, period, unit and scope; are the amounts identical?

Amounts below are normalized USD, expressed here in millions:

History  Period       Earlier source    Later source     Identical
PFE      FY 2023           58,496             59,553        no
NFLX     FY 2022           31,615.550         31,615.550    yes
NVDA     FY 2022           26,914             26,914        yes
LLY      FY 2023           34,124.1           34,124.1      yes
BRK-B    FY 2021          276,094            276,203        no
SLB      FY 2022           28,091             28,091        yes

NVDA's matched period is 2021-02-01 through 2022-01-30. Berkshire's source
filenames BRK-B_2022.html and BRK-B_2023.html are actually fiscal 2021 and
2022 filings. Their historical filenames and source hashes are preserved.

The complete primary statements, relevant comparative headings, row labels and
typed binding dependencies were inspected. All eligible occurrences of each
selected complete binding agree within each source. Selection of the primary
row was agent assisted; the replay uses disclosed occurrence ordinals. This is
not automatic natural-language question understanding or a retrieval score.

The qualified concept names differ across source versions. No official DTS
package was present in this recovered four/twelve-file source set, and no
external DTS was fetched or validated. Source-local labels and statement scopes
support the literal source-scoped reporting answer. They do not establish a
general cross-taxonomy equivalence map or an economically comparable measure.
No amount difference is called a restatement or correction by this probe.

Two explanation questions
-------------------------
The separate protocol asks why the PFE and BRK-B amounts differ and requires an
explicit source premise for any causal explanation. All source bindings, both
full filings, primary tables, immediately attached footnotes, Note 1 accounting
and presentation policy and direct references were available to the baseline.

PFE: the 2024 royalty-row footnote points directly to Note 1A. The note states
that royalty income was moved from other income/deductions into total revenue,
with prior periods conformed to the new presentation. A separate MD&A paragraph
corroborates the recast. The baseline already reaches the required explanation.
The displayed total increases by USD 1,057 million, while the displayed royalty
component is USD 1,058 million. Keep the USD 1 million residual: the filing's
rounding caveat makes the numbers compatible with rounded presentation, but
does not recover exact unrounded reconciliation. Typed other net income falls
by USD 1,057 million and pretax continuing income is unchanged. Preserve signed
typed values; the visible expense-oriented row reverses the income sign.

BRK-B: total revenue and the service/other-income row each increase by USD 109
million; equity-method earnings decrease by USD 109 million; pretax earnings
are unchanged. The later Note 1 includes generic prior-year reclassification
wording. The reviewed passages do not explicitly connect the USD 109 million
to a particular causal transfer or explain its reason. The arithmetic pattern
is not a causal warrant. A defensible answer gives the source-scoped amounts
and the limited observed pattern, then abstains from the specific cause.

After the baseline, supplementary source search was capped at twelve passages
per history. The result records the exact inspected byte ranges, ranking terms
and selection reasons; raw passages remain outside Git. Twelve supplementary
PFE passages and ten BRK-B reclassification/conformity passages were inspected.
The two remaining BRK-B slots inspected equity-method passages. Search then
stopped. Unreviewed regions of the pair remain possible evidence; the result
does not claim that no explanation exists in either filing. Search scores and
the exhausted review budget cannot clear external coverage.

Source-pack and reader-gate readiness
------------------------------------
These are six program-extracted, agent-reviewed reporting controls plus two
agent-reviewed explanatory development cases. They are not independent human
references, naturally collected user questions, held-out cases, model outputs,
or the requested 100 complete/100 insufficient natural-language competence set.

The PFE case has a source-anchored candidate evidence set for an explanation
with an explicit precision limit. It still needs independent adjudication and
a frozen reader-input rendering before use as a scored competence item. The
BRK-B case has an unresolved cause under a bounded review; it is not yet a
verified globally insufficient item. In particular, review failure must not
be relabeled as proof that a complete source pair cannot answer the question.

The reader gate stays closed. Class recall and false elimination were not
measured. The six reporting controls do not count as evidence that an automatic
question proposer can recover the correct classes. No finite-source semantic
coverage assertion is admitted for the explanatory BRK-B question.

Reproduction
------------
Use the exact sources recovered by data/empirical_v23/source_recovery_protocol.json.
Run from acl2027_temporal_state with EXTERNAL set to the external source folder:

python3 scripts/probe_cross_filing_v23.py --external-dir EXTERNAL --output NEW_REPORTING_RESULT.json
python3 scripts/reconstruct_cross_filing_review_v23.py --external-dir EXTERNAL
python3 scripts/probe_cross_filing_explanatory_v23.py --external-dir EXTERNAL --output NEW_EXPLANATORY_RESULT.json

The reconstruction verifies source/span hashes and recreates three external-only
inspection files exactly from the public receipt's locators. It neither fetches
data nor publishes narrative excerpts. The probe scripts refuse to overwrite
an existing result. They reproduce numeric extraction and disclosed annotations;
they do not independently validate those annotations' semantic correctness.

Receipts bind protocol, scripts, typed reader, runtime, source hashes, values,
context/unit/dimension dependencies and statement/row/narrative byte locators.
Both protocols and both original result files are retained separately.

Next bounded action
-------------------
Do not launch a text/table comparison from these outcomes. Retain the PFE case
as a baseline-solvable explanation and BRK-B as an unresolved attribution audit.
Any further BRK-B source search needs a separately logged development amendment,
with its extra search cost and a fresh coverage decision. A new positive track
requires a genuine question that remains unresolved after a competent baseline,
an independently supported answer, and a reader that passes the frozen gate.
