Empirical program v22 — aimed at a defensible ACL result
Started 2026-10-05 from commit bcb2568 (v0.21 theory handoff).
No model call, natural question, or held-out prediction is reported here.

The win this program is built to earn

A publishable method result has one shape. On issuer-disjoint financial
filings, certificate-directed acquisition of the source relations that
distinguish competing complete answers raises the rate of jointly correct,
source-supported answers over both of these, at the same charged cost,
without a material rise in unsupported answers:

  1. Typed aspect filtering plus a label-aware query over the same facts.
  2. A generic evidence-sufficiency controller that may take the same actions.

That is the primary claim. Abstaining on everything cannot satisfy it.
A supplied-map optimum cannot be reported as retrieval. The existing 12
filings, eight authored reader controls, v14 questions, and every history
already inspected stay development material. A new identifier does not make
them held out.

Narrower outcomes that are still worth publishing, and will be reported
if the gates say so:

  - Structural closure or generic sufficiency already removes the errors.
    The specialized-method claim stops. The paper becomes the measurement.
  - The typed track shows a residual and a gain; prose tables do not.
    The claim stays inside machine-readable filings.
  - The complete-evidence reader misses the competence gate.
    No retrieval comparison is interpretable, and none is run.

What is explicitly not the target: reviving supersession filtering, joint
identity/update decoding, or nondirect correction propagation. Those routes
have recorded negative or insufficient development results. A larger model
is not a result.

Why this order is the highest-probability path

The certificate solver is finished and conditional. The missing piece is
evidence that the semantic premises hold and that the policy beats strong
baselines. The fastest way to learn that, without spending the confirmatory
sample, is:

  Track T, first. Inline XBRL facts already carry reported entity, period,
  unit, dimensions, and source version. v15.1 matched 23,519 numeric values
  exactly against the pinned Arelle adapter. A tool can judge those bindings
  without a language model. This is where a certificate can be right for a
  reason a reviewer can audit. The text/table track is separate and later.

  Kill question, before annotation. On the development filings only, ask
  whether competing answer-changing bindings remain after typed aspect
  filtering and a generic sufficiency policy. If they do not, stop the
  method claim. If they do, the confirmatory study has a target.

  One harness for every arm. Baselines and the proposed policy must share
  the source pool, proposer, action set, verifier, reader, and cost ledger.
  The only intended difference in the primary comparison is which action
  the controller selects. That harness is the first code increment.

  Reader, in parallel once the harness can emit a pack. Freeze a
  complete-evidence reader on new development items. The receipt-backed
  9B result of 2/8 authored controls is a failed gate, not the system
  under test.

Frozen comparison, provisional numbers

These numbers come from the v16 proposal and the v21 contract. They are
recruitment and engineering targets. A disjoint development pilot must
replace them with a power calculation before any confirmatory prediction.
They are not achieved results.

  Primary endpoint. Jointly correct, fully supported answers divided by
  all eligible scheduled questions. Report answer rate, selective risk
  among emitted answers, and wrong answers over all questions separately.
  Abstain-all has undefined selective risk and does not win.

  Competence gate, provisional. On a new development set, about 100
  complete-evidence and 100 insufficient items. One-sided 95% bounds:
  joint correctness above 85%, unsupported answers below 5%. Finalize
  before that collection.

  Proposal gate, provisional. At least 95% recall of reference
  answer-changing classes, at most 2% false elimination of a valid class.
  State the denominator before collection. Failure sends work back to the
  proposer or verifier.

  Effect, provisional. Five absolute points of supported-answer gain
  against the stronger matched baseline, history-clustered interval
  excluding zero, no material unsupported-answer increase. Finalize the
  effect and the risk tolerance on the pilot, then freeze them.

  Split. Issuer and document family. Amended filings, adjacent versions,
  shared tables, and constructed edits of one history stay together.

  Populations. Score resolvable, insufficient, and genuinely unresolved
  items separately. Clarification, if tested, has its own interaction
  budget and is not mixed into the retrieval comparison.

  Cost. Charge index construction separately. Charge every source read,
  preview, proposal, controller, verifier, and reader call. Token counts
  use the frozen tokenizer and template. Character lengths are not tokens.

Baselines and ablations, same harness

  B0  Complete-evidence reader. Competence only. Not a retrieval result.
  B1  Typed aspect filter and label-aware query. The low-cost structural bar.
  B2  Hybrid or reranked retrieval, if a text track is opened.
  B3  Generic sufficiency controller. Same actions, different ranking rule.
  B4  Certificate-directed controller. Rank by predicted discharge of
      missing support and unrefuted rival classes. Authorize only from
      the observed ledger.
  B5  Larger-context structural reader on a predeclared cost curve.
  D   Count-matched random actions. Diagnostic, not the main competitor.

Ablate only on development data: one hypothesis versus a beam; generic
utility versus rival-specific utility; singleton versus a bounded
conjunctive lookahead; independent snippets versus whole premise sets;
typed reader versus direct reader. Oracle candidates and oracle judgments
are labeled diagnostics and are never pooled into the automatic result.

Stages

  0  Environment. Starting commit bcb2568. Portable checks recorded in the
     session that opened this program. New runs use a fresh directory and
     TMPDIR on a path with no symlink ancestor (macOS /var is a symlink;
     the capture guard refuses it).

  1  Harness. A non-anticipating controller over certificate_v21.
     Predictions rank actions. The verifier is invoked only for obligations
     whose premise atoms are already acquired. Unresolved emits no ledger
     row. Conflicts stop the run. Open coverage cannot authorize. The first
     pack that passes the gate is not claimed to be a minimum-cost
     certificate; the offline solver remains the optimality diagnostic.
     This stage is tests on invented fixtures.

  2  Typed development world. Turn resolved v15.1 facts into atoms,
     observed candidate bindings, and unsigned obligations. Do not invent
     quantities that were not reported. A tool verifier returns support
     when the acquired fact matches the requested binding, contradiction
     when a present required binding disagrees, and unresolved when the
     needed premise was not acquired. Absence is not refutation.

  3  Development kill test. Run B1, B3, and B4 on the existing filings.
     This is a diagnostic. It cannot be cited as held-out accuracy.
     Continue the method claim only if B1 and B3 leave answer-changing
     binding failures that a reviewer can see in the source.

  4  Reader competence. New development items, frozen model, prompts,
     decoding, and arithmetic. Failure stops the comparison.

  5  Proposal and verifier pilot on those same development items.
     Measure class recall and false elimination. Do not repair a miss by
     dropping the item.

  6  Confirmatory protocol freeze, then execution. New issuers. References
     written and adjudicated before predictions. Paired history-level
     analysis. Every scheduled cell stays in the denominator, including
     technical failures.

  7  Text and table track, only if stage 3 found a typed residual worth
     explaining in prose. Second source family only if the claim is meant
     to exceed filings.

Stop rules

  Conflict on the observed ledger ends authorization. Another judgment
  cannot clear it under the v21 theorem.

  Coverage stays open until an external gate says otherwise. Beam
  saturation, zero pair loss, and a high top score do not clear it.

  A favorable development run does not move a filing into the test split.

  If B1 or B3 matches B4 at the same cost on the confirmatory set, the
  specialized claim is withdrawn.

Code status at the start of this program

  Implemented now: src/temporal_state/certificate_controller_v22.py.
  It is the stage-1 harness. It does not read a filing, call a model,
  or decide that a source entails a claim.

  Still required before any empirical number: typed proposer, tool
  verifier, coverage gate, baseline planners, runner, grader, and a
  frozen reader. The map is docs/theory_implementation_map_v21.txt.
  The contract is docs/local_empirical_contract_v21.txt.

Stage 2 status, 2026-10-05

  src/temporal_state/typed_binding_v22.py builds candidates only from resolved
  normalized facts. Sufficiency emits one class while rivals remain. Aspect
  filtering and the certificate abstain. Seven authored fixture tests pass.

  The twelve previously inspected filings were hashed and read outside Git.
  results/typed_binding_census_v22.json stores counts only. Across 23,414
  eligible facts and 4,731 concepts, 3,808 concepts have more than one scoped
  value. On a concept-only probe, sufficiency emits one and the other two
  policies abstain in all 3,808. When the probe names one observed fact's
  complete binding, the three policies agree on 3,767 of 3,808 checks. The
  other 41 are same-binding value conflicts, where aspect filtering also
  abstains. Forty-seven concepts contain at least one such conflict.

  This is a structural census of development filings, not a natural-question
  result. Cross-filing comparisons were not run. The filings are not held out.

Check the harness and the typed census

  cd acl2027_temporal_state
  PYTHONDONTWRITEBYTECODE=1 PYTHONPATH=src python3 -m unittest discover -s tests -p 'test_certificate_controller_v22.py' -q
  PYTHONDONTWRITEBYTECODE=1 PYTHONPATH=src python3 -m unittest discover -s tests -p 'test_typed_binding_v22.py' -q
