PINNED MATCHED SCORER DIAGNOSTIC v0.9

Scope
Four prospectively authored challenge statements from the first eligible Disney
and Intel source prefixes, each scored under two label-definition orders by
both Qwen3-0.6B-Q8_0 and Qwen3-4B-Q8_0. Expected labels are held in a separate
model-assisted reference process and are never consumed by this collector.
Balanced authored contrasts are not naturally sampled candidate accuracy,
calibration, end-to-end QA, held-out generalization, or an algorithmic advance.
The matched comparison changes model weights; it does not isolate parameter
count causally. Both models may have prior training exposure to these sources.

Pins and numerical settings
configs/model_backend_v09.json binds exact model repository commits, full GGUF
SHA256 digests, sizes and public download URLs. The GGUF binds tokenizer and
native template together with weights. The shared llama.cpp b11146 release and
all 60 runtime-file hashes match the earlier v0.7 pin. CPU only, four threads,
4096 context, Q8 key/value KV, flash attention on, batch256/microbatch128, one
server slot, no warmup, no context shifting, and native thinking disabled.
Each full exact prompt plus Yes and plus No must tokenize to the same prefix
and one distinct label token. All eight inputs on both model tokenizers pass
preflight before any research completion. Full inputs must use <=4095 tokens,
leaving one output token. No shortening, history substitution or truncation.

The original v0.7 system instruction and Yes/No label definitions are reused.
Each source-only ITEM is a complete reading statement; it is not a generated
candidate graph. Conditions reverse only the order of the two definitions.
Source text is presented as source data. Item/history IDs route outputs and
are excluded from model messages. Primary condition is yes_no. The diagnostic
no_yes condition is never selected as a better default based on its score.

Each item/condition is scored in its own newly launched server process with
cache_prompt=false. The fixed sequence runs eight small-model distributions
then eight larger-model distributions. There are no warm repeats in v0.9.
The generation request predicts exactly one token with temperature=-1,
post_sampling_probs=false, seed7, n_probs256, no grammar, no logit bias, and no
repetition/presence/frequency penalties. The full-vocabulary normalization
semantics of this pinned runtime are documented by the bound v0.7 C++ source
evidence files. Top256 is a returned-rank limit, not label renormalization.
Both literal labels must occur with finite nonpositive log probabilities;
missing labels fail the complete run without substituting a floor or retry.
All reported label mass is exp(logPYes)+exp(logPNo). Log odds are uncalibrated
support scores, not factual probabilities. Positive odds decide Yes, negative
odds No, and exact zero abstains; reference agreement is analyzed separately.

Resource boundary and failed smoke
The process hard address-space guard is 5.5 GiB, unchanged from the initial
attempt. Research CPU limit is3600 seconds per process; each HTTP completion
has a900 second timeout and the process has a1050 second wall watchdog. The
first trivial Earth/moon smoke stopped before model load with zero completed
distributions because total cgroup memory included about7.57 GiB reclaimable
file cache after asset download. This was a watchdog stop, not an OOM or
proof that weights could not fit. Its exact code/config/log/receipt survive.
The second smoke retained the AS guard and7 GiB watchdog threshold but used
anon+file_mapped+kernel as an approximate resident-footprint metric while
retaining total-cgroup telemetry. This proxy is not measured process RSS;
file mappings and global host activity have limitations. Memory telemetry is
required and collection fails closed if it is unavailable. The second smoke
completed46 input tokens in1.068 seconds of prefill, with single-token label
IDs9454 and2753 and a clean server exit. Its evidence is separate from all
research scores. The provisional1500-token sizing preference was raised to
the full4095-token context budget after smoke success, before research calls.

children_peak_rss_kib uses getrusage(RUSAGE_CHILDREN).ru_maxrss: it is a
cumulative maximum across prior owned children in that Python collector, not
an independently measured peak for each individual research process. Do not
interpret small-model rows after larger-model preflight as small-model RSS.
No paid jobs, credentials, GPU, automatic cloud fallback or8B run is involved.

Evidence projection and reproducibility boundary
Full sources, the exact unlabeled request, rendered prompt strings, complete
input-token arrays, and original full responses remain outside the distributed
project under tmp/source_stream_v09 and tmp/local_backend_v09/research_external.
The packaged records omit those recoverable full-source representations.
They retain exact SHA256s/counts, all returned probability values, request
sampling parameters, single Yes/No IDs, runtime properties and execution logs.
The full response's echoed prompt is replaced only by its hash. No probability
is transformed by this projection. Authored smoke text is fully included.

Default `python scripts/larger_scorer_v09.py` performs offline metadata replay.
It audits frozen code/config/input hashes, exact item-condition coverage,
probability and request policies, cold cache accounting, process/model pins,
and derives every order comparison from saved scores without model calls.
It cannot independently retokenize the omitted source text or reconstruct
mutable original sources from this archive alone. Full rerunning requires the
matching external source/request artifacts and matching public asset bytes.
This is not a hermetic container or cross-hardware reproducibility claim.

Asset recovery in a fresh workspace:
  python scripts/larger_scorer_v09.py download
  python scripts/larger_scorer_v09.py download-comparator
  python scripts/larger_scorer_v09.py verify-assets
All downloads are exact-size/hash bounded; existing corrupt assets fail,
not overwrite. The model weights and binaries are not included in the ZIP.
Collection refuses an existing research directory or receipt, so a reproduction
must use a separate clean working copy preserving the reference artifacts.
No execution result is asserted by this method description; measured outcomes
and execution status are recorded in the results files once complete.

Research numerical-validation amendment
The first matched cold small-model response was saved, then rejected because
the sum of exp(logprob) over256 returned ranks was1.0000011818752477, just
above the original1+1e-6 check. The precise numerical cause was not isolated;
the magnitude is consistent with finite-precision normalization/serialization.
The original code/config/receipt and1 raw,0 accepted response are retained.
After independent review, a fixed1e-4 engineering tolerance applies to both
the returned-top-rank sum and literal-label sum. It is not a universal error
bound, calibration, probability adjustment or change in decision threshold.
All LPs remain exactly as returned. The complete16-call sequence restarts in
research_attempt02; no original row is reused. This amendment followed one
raw response and is explicitly not a zero-output preregistration.

Optional matching-external-artifact audit
  python scripts/verify_larger_scorer_external_v09.py --request PATH_TO_EXACT_REQUEST --external-dir PATH_TO_RESEARCH_EXTERNAL_ATTEMPT02 --assets PATH_TO_PINNED_ASSETS
This separate script compares exact request bytes, full source inclusion,
condition-only label-order changes, every prompt/token hash, original raw
response hash and all preserved probability values against the projections.
With --assets, the pinned llama-tokenize executable independently regenerates
the full prefix and prefix+Yes/prefix+No token sequences for all16 inputs.
Pinned source explicitly enables vocabulary-only loading; no model forward
pass or score distribution is produced. This check runs only after all scoring
servers exit. Full regenerated token arrays remain external; the report keeps
hashes/counts only. It is optional and cannot run from the ZIP alone without
matching externally retained source inputs and the pinned model/runtime files.

Interpretation of cold execution and runtime
Cold means a fresh server process with zero reused prompt/KV tokens. It does
not mean the operating system file cache or CPU caches were cleared. Asset
verification and process startup overhead are separate from reported prompt
processing milliseconds. The fixed small-then-large order is disclosed; these
measurements are operational feasibility evidence, not a controlled hardware
throughput benchmark. Native runtime files are pinned, but host kernel/system
libraries and scheduling are not captured by a hermetic execution image.

Attempt accounting
If the restarted matched run completes, this work has18 actual returned
next-token distributions:16 accepted matched research records,1 excluded raw
response from the first mass-check failure, and1 separate authored feasibility
smoke. The first memory-watchdog stop produced no distribution. Two all-input
preflight server processes precede each research attempt; they perform only
rendering/tokenization. The optional48 vocabulary-only tokenization calls are
separate validations and generate no model-score distributions. Status and
actual counts must be read from completed receipts, not inferred from this plan.

Completed final observations
All16 matched distributions completed and passed offline validation. There
were4/4 label-order sign flips for the small model and0/4 for the larger model.
Small primary decisions were Yes for all4 statements; small diagnostic
decisions were No for all4. Larger decisions were Yes,Yes,Yes,No in both
orders. These are source-support decisions, not a reference-accuracy claim.
The separate reference-label join belongs to the root analysis artifact.
In particular, order stability must not be mistaken for factual correctness.

Per-item log odds (small primary, small diagnostic; large primary, large diagnostic):
  item01:  1.977133, -4.249890;  27.265511, 24.299959
  item02:  1.298927, -4.557878;  25.201569, 21.041946
  item03:  2.539272, -3.880638;  27.865513, 27.865946
  item04:  1.585585, -4.622106; -26.855686,-26.871689
Full unrounded LPs, literal-label mass and returned-top256 mass are saved in
results/larger_scorer_v09.json. Some larger-model literal masses exceed1 by
less than8e-10 in the recorded numeric output; no
clamp or normalization was applied and this is not a factual certainty claim.

The final run took1240.797s overall, including setup/preflight/checks. Summed
prefill was243.969s small and917.002s large. All18 final-run server processes
(2 preflight,16 scored) exited0. Peak owned-child RSS was4,586,064 KiB across
the final collector, within the unchanged5.5 GiB address-space guard. The
separate discarded response and authored smoke make18 actual returned
distributions in this work, of which16 belong to the final matched design.

External matching-artifact audit passed for16 records and8 source-only
condition messages. Both models used identical matched rendered prompts and
input-token sequences. All48 separate vocabulary-only tokenizations matched
the saved exact prefixes and one-label continuations, with zero forward-pass
completions. The default metadata replay reproduced its result byte-for-byte
in two successive invocations. Full sources and token sequences remain
external; the packaged report preserves their hashes/counts and audit result.
