Exact-span native-layout follow-up, v0.13

Purpose and declaration

The source-only context audit identified a rendering limitation: joining all
whitespace inside a chunk can obscure native column alignment and line order.
This follow-up tests only that representation change. It does not repair source
extraction, retrieve different evidence or supply a table's absent headers/units.

The separate layout_protocol.json was declared before layout contexts were
rendered. The primary native batch was already running. At declaration, the
corpus agent had not inspected primary responses or reference answers, and the
root agent reported it had not inspected primary answer contents. This is a
development follow-up motivated by visible source/context structure; it is not
an independent held-out experiment or a retrospective preregistration of the
primary run. The primary corpus, retrieval, requests and results are unchanged.

Exact transformation

Each original chunk stores its physical source page and half-open whitespace
word offsets. The renderer verifies the original corpus, retrieval and context
hashes, verifies each needed augmented page hash, and finds Unicode non-whitespace
words with the regex \S+. It copies the substring from the first selected word's
start through the last selected word's end. Native internal spaces and line
breaks remain. No unselected source word is copied. Leading whitespace before the
first selected word and trailing whitespace after the last word are not added.

The original normalized context must first reconstruct exactly from the frozen
chunk text and headers. The transformed text must have the identical per-chunk
and whole-context whitespace-token sequences. Chunk IDs, scores, ranks, selection,
order, query text/hash, citation headers and evidence-word counts must agree with
the frozen ordinary and paired retrieval outputs. Any mismatch fails the render.
All 16 original question/condition cells must be present exactly once.

All copied third-party text remains outside the repository. The public metadata
contains original and transformed context hashes, byte counts, unchanged evidence
metadata, and each restored span's page hash, word offsets and text hashes. These
receipts are software invariance evidence, not task performance.

What remains unresolved

An original chunk beginning below a unit or period heading still begins below it.
The follow-up does not add nearby page prefixes, infer unit inheritance, associate
headers across pages or alter the semantic selection of passages. Mathematical
reading order already flattened by native PDF extraction can remain flattened.
Retaining source-native whitespace is not certification that model text rendering
is visually identical to the PDF.

The same 960-evidence-word limit applies, but spaces and line breaks may change
native token counts. Every full native prompt must therefore be recounted before
any follow-up batch. If any input exceeds 3500 native tokens, the whole proposed
layout batch is recorded as an input-budget failure: no truncation and no subset
launch. A later amended study would need its own declaration. The renderer never
launches inference and does not assert execution eligibility. A separate request
and execution freeze must bind the same model, prompts, decoding and resource
rules before any native layout batch.

Commands and checks

  python3 scripts/render_layout_contexts_v13.py
  python3 -m unittest discover -s tests -p test_layout_contexts_v13.py -q

Both context and metadata destinations are write-once. Five focused tests cover
column spaces/line order, absent-header exclusion, Unicode whitespace and signs,
source mismatch rejection and unchanged headers/chunk order. The tests use
authored structural fixtures and make no empirical research claim. Source-word
roundtrip checks on the selected real financial pages occur in the actual render
through the same generic span validation applied to every selected chunk.
