v0.7 source-grounded conditional label likelihood pilot

This protocol replaces the earlier ordinal scorer only for a new, separately
identified scoring run. It reuses the repaired v0.6 source-only candidate graph;
that generator remains unversioned. The new tiny quantized CPU scorer must bind
an immutable model asset, tokenizer, runtime, chat template, tokenization and
actual invocation receipt before any cache may describe it as pinned. It is not
the prepared 8B baseline, and it does not retrospectively pin the generator.

The request was prepared before reading any v0.7 scorer values or decoder
outputs. This is a development protocol freeze, not an untouched benchmark
preregistration: the sources and graph were already used in v0.6. No v0.6
ordinal values, QA, gold answers or selected decoder state enter preparation.
The checked-in configuration and prompt hashes bind the protocol. A review
clarification that CHANGES can describe announced future succession within the
endpoints' shared modality was made before execution and before the final
request was delivered to the backend. Passing a future date still does not
establish that the event occurred.

Exact target and primary score

Each of the 32 neutral items is judged twice, with two fixed orders in which the
same Yes and No response definitions are displayed. The yes_no condition is
primary. The no_yes condition is a presentation-order diagnostic only. It does
not swap label meanings, establish label mapping invariance, or remove the
model's inherent preference for Yes versus No. It is not averaged with the
primary condition and cannot replace it because it produces a desirable
outcome. Both conditions require complete coverage (64 measurement rows).

For each item and condition, the scorer records the next-token probabilities
of the exact continuations Yes and No after one identical rendered prompt.
Both labels must be single tokens with the actual model tokenizer. Tokenizing
the complete prompt with either label appended must preserve every prompt
token and add exactly that label token. Otherwise the run fails without
substituting labels, inserting a workaround, or silently shortening context.
The stored scalar is

  score = ln P(Yes | prompt) - ln P(No | prompt).

Both natural-log probabilities come from the unfiltered full-vocabulary
next-token distribution. No explanation, end-of-sequence token, generated
confidence, grammar mask, candidate-only normalization, logit bias, temperature
rescaling, top-k or top-p filtering is used. A backend may compute full-vocabulary
log-softmax directly. The difference equals the corresponding raw logit
difference, but both full-vocabulary log probabilities must be retained. The
backend must preserve raw response or logit-evaluation evidence sufficient to
show where the two values came from, and hash the rendered prompt and full
prompt token ID sequence. Requests bind the exact raw message serialization;
the receipt additionally binds model-specific rendering and no-thinking mode.
This is a next-token label likelihood, not a likelihood of the entire source,
claim or response.

Every prompt contains both complete eligible source texts and their supplied
metadata, the cutoff and scope, followed by one neutral structural item. No
source is retrieved or truncated to improve a score. The largest and smallest
prepared prompt contents have 30,646 and 20,631 Unicode characters respectively;
these counts are not tokenizer measurements. The protocol cap is 12,288 tokens;
an executor may enforce a stricter resource cap. At least one continuation
position must fit. Any overflow fails without dropping an item or shortening a
source. Prefix KV reuse is allowed only if mathematically equivalent to the
same complete logical prompt; previous item responses or item-specific suffixes
must not survive into the next item context.

The neutral item builder is inherited exactly from v0.6. It omits generator
candidate IDs, derivation notes, unresolved reasons, candidate order, confidence,
QA and decoder outputs from model content. Item IDs exist only in the routing
metadata. Exact semantic content, item mapping, source request, original
candidate bytes, configuration and prompt are bound and recomputed by the
adapter. Every resolved reading, unresolved option, link and mention-level
no_link option must receive actual model measurements; there are no default
numbers or score-driven omissions.

Reading scores concern faithful interpretation of the historical anchored
assertion. They do not rejudge the older assertion as false merely because a
later correction withdraws its support. Link scores condition on admitting the
two endpoint readings and concern the relation itself. Unresolved is explicit
abstention when no supplied reading is sufficiently supported or essential
ambiguity prevents choosing one. No_link asks whether none of the supplied
outgoing relations is justified, conditional on their endpoints. With no
represented outgoing alternatives, the represented none-of-these option is
true; it does not claim that no possible relation exists outside the generated
candidate set. No_link is shared at mention level even when different readings
would justify different relations. The protocol does not fix that limitation.

What the numbers do and do not mean

These are model conditional label log-odds used as additive heuristic
potentials. They are not calibrated factual truth probabilities, a categorical
distribution over alternatives, or a joint likelihood of a graph. The Yes and
No labels can have unequal prior likelihood. Separately prompted reading and
unresolved judgments need not be logical complements. Link and no_link prompts
need not be complements when a mention has several outgoing alternatives.
A reading may receive support while unresolved also receives support because
an ambiguity remains. The validation contract cannot establish coherence.

Evidence is correlated across claims and repeated across prompts. Summing
unary, link and null potentials may count source support repeatedly. Exact
search does not resolve that modeling problem. The use of a common Yes/No
vocabulary does not prove a common evidence scale across item kinds or prompt
lengths. Different quantization, templates or thinking behavior could change
the scores. No clipping, calibration, class balancing, temperature tuning,
normalization across alternatives, label-prior correction or scale adjustment
is fitted in this pilot. Beta is fixed at 1 and there are no penalties. The
historical objective is primary; active_support is an explicitly separate
ablation. No winner is chosen from the two orders, objectives or decoder
methods on the basis of these exploratory outcomes.

Reproduction and failure boundaries

Run preparation with:

  python scripts/prepare_likelihood_scoring_v07.py \
    --source-request data/natural_model_pilot_v06/candidate_request.json \
    --candidates data/natural_model_pilot_v06/candidate_output_repaired.json \
    --request data/likelihood_scoring_v07/request.json \
    --manifest data/likelihood_scoring_v07/manifest.json

prepare(source_request, candidate_raw) returns the request and private routing
manifest. validate_prepared recomputes and compares both exactly.
validate_measurements checks exact item/condition coverage, bound messages,
finite nonpositive log probabilities, distinct fixed label token IDs, context
bounds and finite log-odds. It does not prove that a declared model was executed;
the independently bound backend receipt supplies execution provenance and
actual token-prefix checks. The adapter must validate that receipt and the raw
measurements before making a cache. The full source request and candidate bytes
are explicit caller inputs; receipt paths are metadata, not file locators.

This run can establish that a specified small local scorer was actually
executed and that all decoders consume its same scores. It cannot establish
accuracy, candidate completeness, novelty, a joint-inference advantage or
reliability on an independently held-out benchmark. The inherited graph still
has a single resolved reading per mention. A competing-candidate source-only
pass is a separate experiment and must not be mixed into this run after seeing
scores.
