Review of incoming local dimension-split report
2026-10-05; supplemental review branch based on v21, not a reproduced v22 result

Provenance and synchronization

The user supplied the following aggregate report in chat. The underlying
results/dimension_residual_v22.json, local code and five unpublished commits
were not supplied to this workspace and have not been inspected or rerun here.
Reported local tip: 6618442 (short ID only). GitHub main was independently read
as bcb2568a52211e353dc9b1694b0ce8cb6b6608de. The local push reportedly failed
for the account skcpda; the exact authentication/authorization cause is not
established from that message alone.

This note is saved on codex/v22-local-report-review, leaving main at the shared
base so the user's five local commits can be imported without an unnecessary
main-branch divergence. The v21 manifests remain the frozen base snapshot;
this supplemental note is identified by its Git commit. Integrate the local
history, reconcile PROJECT_STATE/TASKS/claims and refresh snapshot manifests
only after the actual local artifacts are available. Do not invent the missing
probe IDs, definitions, raw outputs or full commit hash from these aggregates.

Reported observations

Groups with the same concept/entity/period/unit and multiple values: 2,474.
Same-dimension groups: 54, described as the prior near-duplicate amounts.
Multiple-dimension-setting groups: 2,420.

  Dimension settings per group    Reported count
  2                               808
  3--5                          1,087
  6--10                           325
  11 or more                      200
  Total                         2,420

929 groups include both an undimensioned fact and an explicit member.
The reported dominant axes concern retirement-plan type/location, equity
components, award type and product/service. Do not independently equate an
absent explicit dimension with a semantic total: taxonomy defaults, explicit
versus typed dimensions and source scope must be checked on artifact review.

On all 2,420 groups the reported rule behavior is:
  aspect filtering: abstain;
  sufficiency rule: emit one class;
  certificate rule: abstain after one acquired fact.

These are development probes. The reader gate remains closed. The bin counts
sum to 2,420, and 54 + 2,420 = 2,474; this arithmetic check does not verify the
underlying enumeration, semantics or policy implementation.

Research interpretation

The certificate has no observed advantage over typed filtering on this probe.
It refuses an emission made by the supplied sufficiency rule, but this alone
does not establish lower error or a win over a strong sufficiency controller.
An emitted class needs a question-level admissibility reference before it can
be scored wrong. Inspect whether this sufficiency rule is a model/controller
with complete dimension access or merely an implemented shortcut. The current
report is not a comparison against the full S2G-RAG/MSS-Complement mechanisms.

Multi-valued dimension groups establish structural variety in this development
corpus. They do not establish ambiguous natural questions, missing evidence,
the prevalence of a residual retrieval failure, or correct-answer coverage.
Thousands of groups from shared filings are not thousands of independent
history-level samples. The one-acquired-fact stopping behavior needs inspection
before calling it an adaptive retrieval outcome.

Two task populations must be separated:
  A. The question does not specify which dimension/member is wanted. Multiple
     source-consistent scoped answers may be legitimate. Ask for clarification,
     return an explicitly requested complete scoped set, or abstain. Reading
     more documents cannot reveal an unstated user intention.
  B. The question explicitly identifies the wanted scope, but the association
     between that scope and a value is not resolved by the currently available
     typed source representation. This may require a continuation, definition,
     applicability or comparison witness. It is the candidate retrieval task.

A properly acquired typed context or taxonomy/label relation can itself be
dimension evidence. Do not force the baseline to retrieve redundant prose when
the admitted typed source already proves the binding. Give the certificate and
all baselines the same source semantics and charge their actual access equally.
Do not authorize a split amount from the amount alone. Beam saturation, top
score and an exact local optimum still cannot clear candidate coverage.

Next development gate: residual existence before scaling

1. Freeze the local result and inspect its construction.
   Preserve all five commits, the exact probe IDs, source identities, policy
   implementations, question construction (if any), acquire/stop traces,
   dimensions and costs. Check normalization, typed dimensions, default-member
   handling, duplicate source facts, amendment/version identity and grouping.
   Record how many source histories and issuers contribute each stratum.
   The incoming report remains unverified until this is done.

2. Conduct a bounded source-only residual audit.
   Predeclare a seed and inspect up to 40 development groups drawn without
   looking at method wins, spanning axis/cardinality patterns and at least six
   issuer/report histories where available. If fewer histories exist, disclose
   the available number rather than duplicating them. Keep all sampled groups
   and exclusions. This stratified screen is not a prevalence estimate or
   statistical power calculation.

   For each, record the actual question or a clearly labeled source-grounded
   development question, requested dimension intent, valid scoped answers,
   available typed/DTS/label relations and the exact missing evidence, if any.
   Reject residual status if ordinary typed matching, an available taxonomy
   mapping, or standard structural closure already establishes the answer.
   An unspecified question is population A, not a difficult retrieval example.
   Missing/corrupt extraction is recorded separately from evidence selection.

3. Build a small diagnostic set only from the frozen audit.
   Target up to 24 questions: eight fully specified typed controls, eight
   genuine clarification/insufficiency cases and eight verified residual
   binding cases. These are pragmatic workload caps, not a powered study.
   Retain the actual counts if a stratum is smaller. Do not invent dimensions,
   remove baseline metadata, hide a necessary source field or keep searching
   after the cap merely to fill eight favorable residual cases. Natural source
   documents stay unchanged; authored question wording is disclosed.
   Keep references frozen before predictions. Model-assisted development review
   remains model-assisted; it is not independent human gold for confirmation.

4. Resolve reader adequacy before an end-to-end method claim.
   Every resolvable case needs a complete-context strong-reader control with
   the same output schema and faithful source support. Genuine ambiguity and
   missing premises need appropriate abstention/clarification controls. Keep
   the reader gate closed until the predeclared local adequacy rule passes.
   Offline supplied-map/oracle checks can diagnose mechanism feasibility first;
   they are not natural retrieval or reader successes.

5. Compare acquisition under a common acceptance rule.
   Baselines include competent typed/DTS/label-aware filtering, typed filtering
   with standard source-structural closure, and a strong gap/sufficiency or
   complementary-set controller. Compare certificate-directed acquisition to
   these with the same candidates, legal source actions, acquired metadata,
   strong reader, semantic verifier and final support/unknown gate.
   A separate answer-gate ablation may assess refusal behavior, but cannot be
   relabeled a retrieval-policy improvement. Give the same targeted clarification
   option to all methods in population A and score it separately from retrieval.

   Use a predeclared budget grid and charge all source reads/previews, proposal
   calls, verifier calls, taxonomy access and final prompt tokens. Report the
   complete acquisition trajectory; an arbitrary one-fact stop must not prevent
   the stronger baseline from finding an available complete certificate.

Decision rules

The useful development signal is a verified case where certificate-directed
acquisition reaches a complete supported answer with less total cost, or higher
correct-answer coverage at the same budget and error constraint, than the
strongest matched baseline. A unique successful case is a mechanism example,
not significance or publishability evidence. Agreement in abstention is a tie.
Wrong forced choices by an artificially weak rule do not establish the desired
method advantage. All unfavorable outcomes remain in the record.

If the bounded audit yields no residual beyond typed/DTS/structural processing,
stop scaling this dimension experiment. Keep the certificate as a correctness
specification and diagnostic tool, but do not center an ACL algorithmic claim
on dimension ambiguity. A different natural source family or task would need
its own justified residual and new preregistered study. Cross-version mappings
are possible candidates, not promised novelty or success.

If the audit yields a residual but the common-gate comparison ties, the next
question is whether the acquisition policy has any unique practical value.
Do not count a conservative output gate as retrieval innovation. Only a
reproducible development mechanism should motivate the separate history-disjoint,
independently referenced confirmatory study in the v21 empirical contract.

Preserving and importing the five local commits

Run inside the LOCAL WikiGraphRag checkout, with the five desired commits at
HEAD. First inspect `git status --short` and commit any additional intended
project work deliberately; bundles do not include uncommitted files. Do not
discard or reset anything to repair authentication.

  git log --oneline origin/main..HEAD
  git bundle create wikigraph-local-v22.bundle origin/main..HEAD
  git bundle verify wikigraph-local-v22.bundle

Upload that bundle here. It carries the committed delta and the prerequisite
base identity; it does not require the local account to push. The assistant can
then inspect the actual history, public-release contents and results, import
the commits, and publish through the connected GitHub integration under the
standing project authorization. The five commits are not backed up by this
review note. If the base prerequisite is unavailable, a full-history bundle is
a fallback after checking release contents.

For direct local push diagnosis, `git remote -v` and `gh auth status` are
read-only starting points. A permission denial for skcpda suggests the active
credential lacks write access to the destination; it does not by itself prove
which transport or credential store is responsible. Correct the authenticated
account or repository access through the normal login/collaborator workflow;
do not send tokens or passwords in chat, change repository identity, or
force-push to bypass the failure.
