Local empirical contract for the v21 theory
Versioned handoff; prepared 2026-10-05. No model or benchmark run is reported here.

Purpose and status

Test whether acquiring conjunctive source witnesses for competing complete answer
interpretations improves fully supported answer coverage at matched total cost
and unsupported-answer risk. The theory is conditional on candidate coverage,
sound judgments and faithful rendering. It does not establish those properties
for an automatic system or predict a performance gain.

The user will execute the empirical program locally. This document specifies the
required study and the usable repository components; it is not a claim that the
automatic end-to-end pipeline is implemented. The implementation map is
docs/theory_implementation_map_v21.txt. Keep the v16 proposal and frozen v17-v20
protocols as historical records. A new local protocol may replace their proposed
future settings explicitly; it must not overwrite their inputs or observations.

1. Freeze the target before collecting confirmatory outcomes

Each question has a declared source universe and evidence cutoff, permitted
source access, a complete requested answer schema and a rule for equivalent
answers. An answer is joint: if the question requests two versions, both scoped
claims belong to one answer. Reporting both values does not establish a
like-for-like change, correction or causal explanation. Such relations need
their own supported claims. Equal numbers with different requested scopes are
not automatically equivalent.

Separate three populations in the protocol:
  (a) resolvable questions with sufficient source evidence;
  (b) well-specified questions with insufficient accessible evidence;
  (c) genuinely unresolved user/source interpretations, including conflicts.
The allowed outputs and reference action for each population must be explicit.
An optional user-clarification experiment needs a separate interaction budget;
it must not mix hidden user answers into a source-retrieval-only comparison.

Preregister one primary supported-answer endpoint, one unsupported-answer
tolerance, the practical effect size, cost accounting, exclusions, split unit,
sample-size rule, model-selection procedure, budget grid and analysis plan.
Choose these on disjoint development data. A source or model cannot be selected
because its confirmatory outcomes favor the method.

Use issuer/document-family/history-level splits. Adjacent versions, shared
tables, derived questions and constructed perturbations from one history must
stay together. The old questions, eight authored reader controls and previously
inspected filing pairs are development material. A new identifier does not make
them held out. For a broad document claim, include a second independently
sampled source family; otherwise state the financial/structured-document scope.

The earlier proposal of at least 30 histories and about 300 questions is a
recruitment starting point, not a power calculation. Use a separate pilot and
history-level variance to set the final size before test predictions. Preserve
all sampled histories and reasons for unavailable, ineligible or rejected cases.

2. Build independent references for the assumptions

Two independent human annotators inspect the question and complete admitted
source context. Record acceptable complete scoped answers, feasible rival
interpretations, required support and refutation relations, alternative valid
witness sets, and unresolved cases. Adjudicate before predictions. Annotation
must not be constructed from the proposed method's survivors or retrieved
items. Keep predictions and method identity hidden from annotators/grading.

Human agreement and adjudication uncertainty must be reported. Existing
model-assisted development correspondence review is useful engineering input;
it is not independent human gold. A finite human reference is itself a scoped,
fallible operationalization of coverage. Do not claim that empirical recall
proves universal completeness in an unrestricted corpus.

Give every evidence atom an immutable source identity, locator and digest.
Record each conjunctive witness as a set of required premises, including
headings, continuations, unit exceptions and cross-version mappings. Missing
premises mean unresolved. They do not refute a candidate. Distinguish a factual
refutation from a scope mismatch and from conflicting source statements.
Annotate multiple valid witness realizations when available, so retrieval is
not penalized merely for finding a correct alternative to one annotated span.

3. Match theory assumptions to measurements

Candidate coverage:
  Measure per-question coverage of all reference answer-changing classes, joint
  completeness of each requested answer, and omission of a feasible class. A
  class counts as covered only if it has a source-consistent representative;
  listing its answer label on an invalid hypothesis is insufficient. Recall of
  one valid reference target supports the weaker target-preservation theorem,
  not the stronger unique-resolution theorem over all admissible classes.
  Report these over all questions and among answered questions, by source
  family and ambiguity type. Also report beam size, pruning and unknown/coverage
  gate decisions. Candidate count and top-1 accuracy do not measure coverage.
  An oracle candidate arm is diagnostic only. Low pair loss or beam pruning
  cannot serve as the reference label for clearing the unknown gate.
  While the sentinel is OPEN, structural certificate optimization is planning
  or diagnosis only. It cannot authorize an answer or manufacture a coverage
  assessment from a favorable finite-map optimum.

Judgment soundness:
  Measure support precision and false contradiction/refutation on independently
  reviewed relations. Give both judgment-level denominators and the fraction
  of questions on which at least one feasible interpretation is eliminated.
  The latter catches accumulated or correlated errors across many calls.
  Condition separately on acquired evidence and all declared premises being
  present. Record unresolved and conflicting judgments rather than dropping
  them. V21 abstains on any observed positive/negative conflict. Adding another
  judgment cannot clear an existing signed-ledger conflict. Any later
  adjudication or supersession needs a separately versioned, justified protocol
  preserving the originals; that extension lies outside the present theorem.

Positive support and rendering:
  Score the complete answer jointly for value, sign/scale, all requested scope,
  material relations and valid citations. Audit whether every material output
  claim is present in the authorized structured answer and supported by the
  acquired premises. A source hash proves identity, not entailment. A schema-
  valid output can still be semantically wrong. Report reader correctness with
  independently sufficient evidence separately from retrieval failures.

Conjunctive acquisition:
  Report witness-set completion, missing-premise rate, retrieval of a valid
  minimal or alternative certificate, number of acquired atoms, and cost to the
  first valid certificate. Include examples requiring three or more premises;
  a two-step lookahead does not solve arbitrary conjunctions. Source-constructed
  missing-heading/attachment swaps remain a separate mechanistic track.
  For small supplied-judgment instances, compare solver cost with an exact
  certificate optimum. This is an offline oracle diagnostic and not an online
  policy regret guarantee. A verifier may not inspect unacquired source text to
  produce free selection labels.

Risk and coverage:
  Let N be all eligible scheduled questions, A the number with a substantive
  answer, and E the number of those answers that are wrong under the declared
  joint-answer reference. Report answer rate A/N, joint error mass E/N and
  selective risk E/A. The last is undefined when A=0; do not report zero risk
  for an abstain-all system. Report correct-answer yield over all questions,
  plus correct refusal/clarification on their declared populations. Keep strict
  joint-answer error and unsupported-material-claim risk as separate metrics.
  Define substantive-answer detection before evaluation, including material
  claims in malformed or schema-invalid outputs. A parser failure must not
  hide an exposed unsupported answer by relabeling it as an empty refusal.

  A sum of unconditional component error probabilities controls unconditional
  error mass under the theorem's assumptions. It does not directly bound E/A.
  Selective bounds require the answer-rate denominator or independently valid
  answer-conditional assumptions. Do not substitute empirical component point
  estimates for calibrated guarantees. Report uncertainty for both the error
  numerator and answer denominator; any claimed risk certificate needs its own
  stated calibration procedure and validation assumptions.

  In an adaptive run, a verifier's average accuracy on a static set does not
  supply a uniform error bound conditional on every reachable acquisition
  history. Report on-policy errors and question-level accumulated errors.
  Any per-call bound lifted through the theorem must explicitly justify its
  uniform conditional premise and finite or otherwise controlled call budget.

Cost and non-anticipation:
  Record initial retrieval/index construction, candidate proposal, descriptors,
  controller/scorer, every source access, verifier and final reader call. Give
  prompt/output tokens for all calls, wall time, cache reuse, and any monetary
  estimate with its model/price basis. State index amortization separately.
  The theorem's additive atomic acquisition cost and the actual rendered-prompt
  capacity are separate quantities. Measure exact tokenizer/template tokens;
  labels and merged span headers can change cost, so character counts and sums
  of separately tokenized snippets are insufficient.

  Each action log must show what was known before selection, what new atoms
  were acquired and charged, what judgments were emitted afterward, and why
  the system answered or stopped. Predicted utility may rank actions; unseen
  true support/refutation labels cannot guide an online action. If full source
  text is read to predict utility, that access and its model cost are charged.

4. Baselines and diagnostic ablations

First establish a competent complete-evidence reader. Select and freeze its
model/version, prompts, decoding, arithmetic tools and complete-evidence
competence thresholds on independent development cases. The historical 2/8
authored result is a failed gate; it is not a strong-reader baseline.

The primary acquisition comparison shares source pool, initial evidence,
candidate proposer, available actions, verifier, reader, source metadata and
cost definition. Compare:
  - ordinary structural/aspect filtering and a label-aware query parser;
  - hybrid/reranked retrieval and strong generic evidence-sufficiency control;
  - competing-interpretation acquisition with dependency-aware selection;
  - a larger-context structural reader along a measured cost curve;
  - count/cost-matched random actions as a diagnostic, not the main competitor.

Give all methods the same typed XBRL facts, validated mappings and structure in
the machine-assisted track. Report a text/table track separately. Do not hide
correct source metadata from a baseline. Distinguish faithful reproductions
from adaptations of cited methods and report each adaptation's information.

At minimum ablate top-one versus multiple hypotheses, generic utility versus
rival-specific utility, singleton versus bounded lookahead, conjunction-aware
versus independent-snippet packing, and typed constrained versus direct reader.
Use fixed-evidence comparisons to isolate the reader and fixed-reader
comparisons to isolate acquisition. Oracle candidates and oracle witness
judgments diagnose bottlenecks; they cannot be pooled into automatic results.
Candidate/action order permutations expose tie-order artifacts.

At matched total cost, report supported-answer gain and unsupported risk. For
a claim at matched risk, choose policy thresholds on development data and
evaluate the frozen operating points on test. Do not tune thresholds using
test risk. Plot risk-coverage and cost-performance curves with all prespecified
budget points, including failed or budget-exhausted runs.

5. Local sequence and stop/go decisions

Stage 0: preserve the starting commit and run the portable checks below. Make
new run directories and bind hashes of code, configurations, sources, model,
tokenizer, references, complete schedule and seeds. Keep reference files out of
prediction processes. Reacquired bytes are a new source realization unless
they match the recorded hashes. Lost historical native outputs cannot be
recreated by rerunning the model.

Stage 1: obtain independent source/answer admission and a complete-evidence
reader competence pilot. Freeze numerical targets before collection. The v16
proposal (100 complete plus 100 insufficient cases; one-sided 95% bounds above
85% joint correctness and below 5% unsupported answers) is a proposed starting
gate, not an achieved result or proof of adequacy in the final population.

Stage 2: implement and separately evaluate automatic proposal, three-valued
verification, coverage gate and the non-anticipating acquisition adapter.
The v16 targets of at least 95% proposal recall and at most 2% false elimination
are provisional engineering targets. Specify their exact denominator and
confidence procedure before collection. Use history-clustered uncertainty
where judgments/questions share sources. Failure returns work to the relevant
component; it cannot be repaired by omitting the difficult test cases.

Stage 3: establish residual need on the disjoint pilot: do real sources retain
binding failures after the structural and generic-sufficiency baselines? Can
independent annotators identify distinguishing source relations reliably? If
not, stop the specialized-method claim and report the narrower finding.

Stage 4: freeze and execute the confirmatory matched comparison. The previous
five-point supported-answer gain target is provisional, to be finalized before
test predictions with the unsupported-risk tolerance. Use paired analysis with
resampling or inference at history/document-family level, not independent
question bootstraps. Report per-history results, confidence intervals, declared
multiple-comparison handling and all exclusion/technical-failure counts.

Retain every scheduled cell: completed, failed, unattempted or blocked after a
stop. Technical failures have their own rate and remain in the intention-to-run
correctness denominator; they cannot be silently treated as safe refusals.
Seal raw requests, responses, usage, errors and source-access traces before
grading. Keep a verified second local copy of each completion; test cold-process
read-back before a long campaign. Exact third-party captures and credentials
remain outside public Git. Commit public code, allowed data, manifests,
protocols, statistical scripts, aggregate results and manuscript updates.

6. Commands that are usable now

From the repository root, with Python 3.11 or later:

  python3 scripts/verify_repository.py
  cd acl2027_temporal_state

Portable authored implementation checks, without model/API calls or a corpus:

  PYTHONDONTWRITEBYTECODE=1 PYTHONPATH=src python3 -m unittest discover -s tests -p 'test_witness_selection_v14.py' -v
  PYTHONDONTWRITEBYTECODE=1 PYTHONPATH=src python3 -m unittest discover -s tests -p 'test_reader_binding_v18.py' -v
  PYTHONDONTWRITEBYTECODE=1 PYTHONPATH=src python3 -m unittest discover -s tests -p 'test_reader_joint_scoring*' -v
  PYTHONDONTWRITEBYTECODE=1 PYTHONPATH=src python3 -m unittest discover -s tests -p 'test_native_completion_checkpoint*' -v

The v21 finite-certificate reference checks and authored mechanism examples:

  PYTHONDONTWRITEBYTECODE=1 PYTHONPATH=src python3 -m unittest discover -s tests -p 'test_certificate_v21.py' -v
  PYTHONDONTWRITEBYTECODE=1 PYTHONPATH=src python3 scripts/check_theory_v21.py

The second command prints its result. To save a fresh local receipt, pass
--output /absolute/local/run-root/theory_controls_new.json. These commands do
not retrieve sources, verify natural-language judgments or run a model.

Optional preparation of the sixteen existing development messages, using a NEW
directory outside the repository (replace the example path):

  python3 scripts/prepare_authored_policy_comparison_v20_1.py --output-directory /absolute/local/run-root/policy_inputs_new

That command prepares messages and a manifest only. It does not tokenize them,
load a reader, create natural questions or run the planned comparison. Inspect
the produced manifest's outstanding requirements before writing a native
adapter. Do not run the frozen v19.1 execute/freezer entrypoints as a new local
campaign: they bind historical paths, hashes, counters and output destinations.

The full historical suite additionally needs its pinned Arelle/lxml runtime and
an external temporary directory; see docs/reproduce_v15.txt and
results/reference_runtime_v15.json. Once those are installed and their local
paths recorded, run from the research directory:

  PYTHONDONTWRITEBYTECODE=1 TMPDIR=/absolute/local/tmp PYTHONPATH=/absolute/local/arelle_runtime:src python3 -m unittest discover -s tests -q

This is an implementation check, not an empirical replication. Full-source
reanalysis requires exact admitted private bytes, and historical v19/v19.1 raw
native outputs remain unavailable. No end-to-end automatic benchmark command
is supplied because its local model/corpus adapters and references are not yet
implemented or admitted. The missing interfaces are enumerated in the map.
