Paired-version development corpus and retrieval, v0.13

Implemented scope

The corpus uses only the four PDF representations recovered in v0.12: Plug
Power FY2019 and FY2020 Form 10-K documents, and OPERA arXiv v1 and v4. Their
SHA-256 hashes are checked before extraction. There are two development histories,
four documents, 550 PDF pages and 2,306 chunks. The first-public availability and
historical byte-identity limitations from the source reviews still apply.

Native extraction uses /usr/bin/pdftotext -layout -enc UTF-8. Form feeds preserve
every physical PDF page, including blank pages. Page counts must match 142, 347,
24 and 37; a mismatch stops the build. Empty pages produce no chunks and remain
in the manifest. The blank-page inventory matches the prior visual review.

Chunks contain at most 160 whitespace-delimited words and overlap by 30 words.
They never cross a page boundary. No body text is omitted based on questions or
references. Native headers, footers, bibliography, captions and repeated content
remain. Chunk IDs are document_id:pNNN:cNN. Whole documents are searchable;
neither comparator sends whole documents to the reader.

Image-table recovery and extraction limits

The v0.12 source review identified two missing native-text tables on OPERA v1
physical PDF pages 15 and 20. Both complete tables were recovered before task
retrieval. The pages were rendered locally using /usr/bin/pdftoppm, one page at
a time with -scale-to 2200 -singlefile -png. Tesseract 5.3.4 with --psm 6 produced
raw full-page OCR, retained unchanged outside the repository. The corpus agent
actually inspected both rendered pages and transcribed every table row, header,
value, sign and intentionally blank cell. A machine OCR error in the table 1
WFD label was corrected in the separate visual transcription, not in raw OCR.
The source spelling and the differently spelled table 2 FWD label were retained.

The transcriptions are model-assisted visual review, not human gold. They are
separate from native text, visibly tagged as such, and inserted immediately after
the relevant native caption on the same page. They contain whole tables, not
answer-selected cells. Render, OCR, transcription, source, native-page, augmented-
page and chunk hashes are preserved. The provenance list on each chunk describes
the extraction sources available on its originating page; on supplemented pages,
some individual chunks contain only native body text. Literal transcription tags
mark supplemented text in the corpus itself.

This is complete native-text access plus two disclosed table supplements. It is
not a claim that every equation, raster chart or table in every PDF has a perfect
textual representation. Mathematical typography can flatten. Other raster figures
are not guaranteed searchable. Chunk boundaries can split a table and a later
chunk need not repeat all column headers. Scoring must distinguish retrieval and
extraction problems from reader failures. A citation page alone is not evidence
that the selected chunk contains the required fact or its units and scope.

Retrieval comparator

BM25 uses k1=1.2 and b=0.75. Tokens are Unicode lowercase alphanumeric sequences;
underscores and punctuation delimit tokens. Unique sorted query terms are scored
with no expansion, reference text, answer labels or gold pages. The inverse-
document frequency is log(1 + (N - df + 0.5)/(df + 0.5)). N, df and average token
length are calculated over the same two-document history corpus for both arms.
Score ties break by ascending chunk ID.

The ordinary arm takes the six highest-scoring chunks in the history. The paired
arm takes the three highest-scoring chunks from each of its two documents using
the identical history scores. Zero-score chunks are retained if selected by the
fixed rule; they are not replaced using reference evidence. There is no diversity
filter, de-duplication, reranking or post-retrieval truncation. Both arms render
chunks in version-order, document-ID, PDF-page and chunk-index order, using:

  [document_id p.N | chunk=document_id:pNNN:cNN | version=1]
  literal normalized chunk text

Six chunks contain at most 960 evidence words. Headers add separately counted
words and tokens. Exact native token counts and input-budget eligibility must be
checked by the frozen reader runner; this retrieval code does not estimate them.
Chronological order is document order, not proof of historical availability.

The question reader accepts a JSON list or an object with a questions list and
uses only question_id, history_id and question. It ignores all extra fields. This
implementation does not read answer/reference files or evaluate predictions.
Both source pairs are already familiar development material, not held-out data.

Artifacts and commands

Public corpus_manifest.json records source identities, hashes, physical page
locators, counts and extraction provenance. Public paired_retrieval_v13.json
records exact context hashes, selected chunks, scores, ranks and counts, with no
third-party passages. Full corpus, page text, contexts, OCR, table transcriptions
and renders stay outside the repository. The local paths are recorded so this
session can reproduce the run. Independent reconstruction requires the pinned
PDF bytes and separately supplied/recreated reviewed table-transcription assets;
the public metadata alone cannot reproduce those copyrighted passages bytewise.

From the research directory:

  python3 scripts/build_paired_corpus_v13.py
  python3 scripts/retrieve_paired_v13.py --questions QUESTION_FILE
  python3 -m unittest discover -s tests -p test_paired_retrieval_v13.py -q

Both scripts refuse to overwrite completed outputs. The builder requires an
external table_transcriptions.json whose complete-table flags and supporting
render/OCR hashes verify, and otherwise fails rather than silently dropping the
known missing tables. Neither script performs network access or reader inference.
The six contract tests cover actual extraction/retrieval risks: page boundaries,
overlap tails, unreviewed table supplements, matched scores with distinct selection,
Unicode/tie behavior and exclusion of reference fields. They are authored software
checks, not experimental performance evidence.
