ACL 2027 REWORK: CHECKPOINT v0.4
Work date: 2026-10-02
Focus: a common path from scored candidates to temporal answers, and broader
primary-source discovery. This is an implementation checkpoint, not a paper result.

Outcome and research interpretation
Independent, iterative, restarted iterative and exact joint decoding now consume
one validated candidate/score cache and use identical conditional temporal
constraints and answer rules. The cache includes full bounded claims, explicit
null alternatives, unary and pair scores, local penalties, source hashes,
prefix context and model/prompt/configuration provenance. It rejects unexpected
label fields, stale hashes, undeclared/future context and invalid evidence spans.
Hashing establishes consistency, not semantic entailment or provenance truth.

Two authored controls show linked constraints improving answers for every method:
same-episode observations can support an intervening day, and a predecessor link
can rule an earlier holder out at a later observation without inventing the exact
handover. These effects belong to the shared materializer, not to joint search.
The fixed-selection, links-removed control makes this distinction visible.

A coordinated identity trap is solved by exact search and seeded restarts but
not by the independent or single-start iterative methods. A paired misleading-
score control reverses that correctness pattern: exact optimization and restarts
choose the wrong identity despite a higher objective. These constructed examples
validate the intended controls. They cannot demonstrate that joint inference
helps on natural language, beats a strong model scorer, or warrants a paper claim.

Fourteen integration contracts pass across seven authored cases, eight queries
and four methods (32 predictions). Predictions are written before the script
loads expected answers. One future-actual query is an unscored mode guard; it
must abstain. Other controls cover a clean no-interaction case, incompatible
restatement bounds and a planned/actual merge that every method must reject.

Temporal semantics implemented
Each selected episode has integer start and end variables with positive
duration. RESTATES equates endpoints only for compatible same-key/value,
same-polarity, same-modality readings. CHANGES orders the predecessor's end no
later than the successor's start; gaps remain possible. It does not assert that
the intervals meet. Equal-valued episodes separated by a change remain separate.
No nonoverlap constraint is imposed on unlinked reports, so contradictory
evidence need not force an artificial entity split or be silently deleted.

Classical difference-constraint closure computes conditional endpoint bounds
and rejects infeasible selected links. The closure itself is not new research:
see Dechter, Meiri and Pearl, Temporal constraint networks, Artificial
Intelligence 49 (1991), 61-95, https://doi.org/10.1016/0004-3702(91)90006-6
Primary author-hosted paper: https://ftp.cs.ucla.edu/pub/stat_ser/r113-L-reprint.pdf

Every method gets the same feasibility callback, objective and evidence. The
callback is constrained to link-induced interactions: each valid reading vector
retains a feasible all-null link choice. This implementation does not support
arbitrary globally infeasible reading vectors. Original actual-report horizons
remain unchanged; graph links cannot mix planned and actual modalities. A
separately modeled modality for each endpoint is still missing.

Review and verification
Independent review found two issues and verified their fixes. First, independent
decoding ignored a local violation cost that the joint objective subtracted;
the independent initializer now uses the same local penalties. This prevents a
spurious advantage even in a graph with no interactions. Second, mutable
observation collections could change a direct feasibility callback after its
creation; the boundary now requires immutable tuples.

An independently generated audit enumerates small integer-day networks directly,
without using the closure implementation to define its expected results. Across
500 networks, 50 are feasible and 450 infeasible; 721 feasible interval assignments
support 1,178 passing checks of feasibility, endpoint extrema and may/must
membership. The reproducible script is scripts/audit_coupled_finite.py.
Unit-suite counts and all runner outcomes are in results/verification.json.

All 39 previously migrated natural claims also undergo a lossless singleton
cache/decoder/materializer smoke check under all four methods. Its fixed 0/-1
admission scores are artificial; there is one resolved reading and no pair link.
This tests compatibility only and cannot measure method differences or natural
accuracy. No natural questions or expectations are read by that smoke runner.
The v0.3 sources, annotations, labels and backend preparation remain unchanged;
results/v04_input_preservation.json checks 38 files against the v0.3 archive.

Broader sources and a genuine correction pair
Five new discovery histories add eleven source records: Docker Free Team sunset
reversal, Chrome cookie-plan revisions, Artemis mission schedule changes,
PlayStation legacy-store reversal, and Lyft's explicit margin-forecast correction.
The original Lyft SEC exhibit says 500 basis points and its replacement explicitly
corrects that to 50. This is a correction of a forecast statement, not a transition
in actual financial performance. Same-day public timing is not yet established.
URLs, short evidence excerpts, scope/date distinctions and admission gaps are in
data/source_register/expansion_v04.json and docs/source_expansion_v04.txt.

The Docker publisher-linked archive was opened by the discovery agent, but the
root's follow-up retrieval returned an internal error; historical-byte capture is
still pending. A current Chrome page carrying an old date visibly contains later
material. This is a concrete reason not to backdate live pages using their footer.
All five histories are discovery-only and visible to development. None has exact
raw bytes, a frozen historical prefix, gold QA, or held-out benchmark admission.

Execution status
A new read-only Jobs listing returned the same UNAVAILABLE provider error before
any execution. No new submission, model generation, training or alternate
execution path was attempted. The pinned extractor remains prepared and disabled.
See results/cloud_execution_recheck_v04.json. This is not a demonstrated credit
shortage or an automatic approval rejection.

What still limits a publishable claim
The exact search remains deliberately small and exponential in candidate/link
choices. Temporal closure per selected state is cubic in its endpoint-variable
count. There is no component-scaling, timeout-quality or matched-runtime result.
CORRECTS is rejected when selected; correction-aware temporal answering remains
unimplemented, despite discovery of a real correction pair. Predictions are
conditional on one selected discrete interpretation; ties/near-optimal states
are not aggregated into a certified answer. Source membership is not an
independent entailment check. There are no model-scored natural alternatives,
candidate-recall results, held-out experiments or natural joint-versus-restart gains.

Next research gate
Acquire defensible historical versions and implement targeted correction semantics
without confusing changed plans with retracted claims. Execute the pinned extractor
when a supported backend is available. Then freeze contextual unary/pair scores
shared by every method and measure candidate recall before decoder comparisons.
The decisive test remains natural answer gains over the strongest contextual and
restarted baseline at measured cost. If that gain is absent, revise the paper's
contribution instead of selling exact optimization or these authored examples as
the empirical advance.

Reproduce
  python scripts/verify_project.py
This uses stored artifacts and standard-library code, without model execution.
