Question-free reconciliation preparation v20

Status: separately authorized privileged preparation after the immutable v19
source-only initial review. This role is never a question author. This plan and
the resulting metadata receipt contain no natural source literals or quantities.
The unchanged v19 annotations remain initial model-role judgments pending a
separate substantive review. No prior source-only independence is claimed after
access to the typed registry in this new role.

Scope and frozen parents

Account for all 326 retained bundle-occurrence entries across all 21 fixed
bundles. Preserve bundle memberships and original ordering. Read only the frozen
v19 ledgers/projections reached by their freeze manifest and the exact v18 typed
question-free registry reached by its inventory. No natural questions, reference
answers, predictions, source searches, dependency expansion, or native output
are inputs. Existing private captures and historical failures remain unchanged.

The initial source-only review was performed by three model roles on disjoint
assignments, with two fresh subroles and a coordinating role with disclosed prior
source exposure. The coordinating role now explicitly transitions to privileged
reconciliation preparation. This is not duplicate human annotation, fresh author
access, or a second independent semantic review.

Inputs bind the v19 initial freeze manifest and its exact ledger/projection
digests; the v18 typed-bundle inventory and each exact bundle digest; the v19
bridge plan; and the unchanged v19 annotation plan/schema. Physical input hashes
and paths are recorded privately and in source-free provenance metadata.

Exact-join preparation

The occurrence identity key is the tuple of source SHA256, byte_start, byte_stop,
span_sha256, and DOM path, within the fixed bundle. Neither a visible or canonical
value nor a label, year, issuer name, concept, unit, or dimension participates in
the join. Every candidate is retained if a join is ambiguous. A missing or invalid
locator remains explicitly unresolved. The bounded private inventory uses the
reviewed pure reconciler's exact-join primitive if available; it is an adapter and
provenance report, not another semantic mapping or registry-production layer.

For each retained entry preserve:

  entry_key:
    bundle_handle: string
    occurrence_handle: string
    entry_sha256: string
  frozen_input_refs:
    ledger, projection, typed_bundle: path/bytes/SHA256 records
    ledger_entry_index: integer
  source_identity:
    source_sha256, span_sha256, dom_path: strings
    byte_start, byte_stop: integers
  join:
    state: exact_unique | unmatched | ambiguous | provenance_mismatch
    typed_fact_index: integer or null
    typed_fact_handle: string or null
    candidate_refs: list of original typed fact indexes, handles and digests
  unchanged_typed_record:
    exact decoded original fact object or null for a nonunique join
    canonical-JSON object digest plus original bundle-file digest
  source_review:
    original presentation status, disposition and attachment records
    exact witness references and source unknown reason codes
  preparation_by_aspect:
    exactly concept, entity, period, unit, population, source
    reconciliation_state: pending_separate_review
    accepted_value: null
    declared_binding_present: boolean
    source_to_declared_correspondence: not_established
  coverage_categories:
    source disposition and presentation categories
    original relation-state counts and unresolved relation categories
    join cardinality and exact-accounting status

The source aspect's declared form is {sha256, version}; source_version remains an
original typed anchor field. A typed snapshot is preserved as decoded JSON with a
specified canonical-object digest; its original file hash separately preserves
physical byte provenance. No rewrite of the original registry is performed.

The inventory copies canonical values, numeric statuses, declared aspects,
dimensions, prior flags, and existing null population bindings unchanged. Exact
joins do not certify any visible or typed correspondence. All six reconciliation
states stay pending and accepted values stay null, including physically matched
source identities. Unknown or ambiguous source relations are preserved literally
and counted separately from entry coverage. A cover issuer is not substituted for
reported entity; empty dimensions do not establish consolidation; equal values
are not deduplicated; filenames do not supply dates; repeated labels do not supply
common concepts across namespaces or periods.

Output and review boundary

New private proposal files, a physical provenance manifest, an explicit role and
exposure transition record, and a mechanical coverage report live under the
separately versioned reconciliation directory. A public receipt contains only
counts, statuses, hashes, paths and methodological scope. Initial v19 files are
not modified. No EvidencePack, registry overlay, supported-decision records,
author packet, admission, or author release is produced by this preparation.

The separately implemented pure reconciler may later consume explicit reviewed
decisions. Those decisions must distinguish source-visible support from copied
declared metadata, retain unresolved bindings, and satisfy their own provenance
requirements. The preparation inventory does not satisfy or bypass that review.
Coverage completeness means every retained entry is accounted for, not that every
binding is known or that a bundle or future question is admissible.
