v0.11 strict offline source-passage evaluation

This evaluator was prepared from the frozen protocol, question contract, and
independent source-only model-assisted reference file. It does not read native
raw outputs, perform inference, or access the source passage text. Unit-test
fixtures are explicitly authored software checks, not model observations.

Run after the unchanged native texts have passed the separate source-copy
export review:
  python3 scripts/evaluate_reader_v11.py

For repeatable validation without writing files:
  python3 scripts/evaluate_reader_v11.py --check
This recomputes all bindings and scoring and requires exact equality with the
existing result. Any mismatch raises an error and leaves all artifacts intact.

The default input is results/native_reader_v11_outputs.json and the default
output is results/reader_evaluation_v11.json. Existing result files are never
overwritten. Missing inputs and malformed exports are written as retained
validation failures. Native response strings are never repaired, stripped of
code fences, rearranged, or retried.

The evaluator binds the exported predictions to the attempt02 frozen collector
and export review, and binds references and questions by the original protocol
hashes. Duplicate JSON keys are rejected at every nesting level. Native answer
JSON must have exactly one answers list containing Q1,Q2,Q3 in that order, with
the exact frozen fields and enums. Evidence must be a nonempty unique subset
of P1,P2,P3,P4. Numeric strings, booleans, null for a named exposure, NaN, and
infinities are rejected. An uncertain exposure requires null. All numbers are
parsed as Decimal and compared with zero tolerance. Thus 13.59 and 13.590 have
the same numeric value, while 13.5900000000000001 differs.

Any response-level schema violation invalidates all three answers in that
condition; partial answers are not silently salvaged. Input truncation,
output-limit stops, incomplete stops, and unreviewed generated text are retained
as failures. The unchanged exported response remains the audit source.

For a schema-valid answer, correctness requires both the reference answer
content and at least one reference-adjudicated sufficient evidence subset.
Additional valid passage IDs do not reduce correctness and are listed
separately. In this fixed reference, P4 alone is sufficient for Q2; P1 supplies
correction provenance but is not compulsory for the local consistency check.
Q1 requires P4, and Q3 requires P3. This rule uses the reference adjudications
rather than exact matching the longer evidence list in the reference answer.

Results are reported for each question in each condition. There is no aggregate
population accuracy estimate, significance test, causal claim, or comparison
with a correction algorithm. The two conditions reuse the same three related
questions in one evidence-selected development case.
