ACL 2027 research update — v0.10
3 October 2026

The correction study has produced two source-grounded controls and an executable six-state replay. In both financial cases, direct correction and dependency propagation retain exactly the same assertions. The sources explicitly replace both the erroneous input and the downstream earnings figure. Removing the downstream direct correction would manufacture an apparent benefit for propagation, so all four direct correction links were retained.

This is a useful restriction on the paper's contribution. These examples demonstrate correct record updating and preservation of unaffected evidence, conditional on the supplied annotations. They do not establish model accuracy, learned extraction, a decoder advantage, numerical recomputation, or an end-to-end QA result. The eight-history empirical gate remains incomplete.

What was completed

The search protocol was frozen before discovery, with six queries and up to six candidate histories per domain. Eighteen queries screened twelve histories: three corporate, five scientific, and four technical. Every query, inspected candidate and access failure is retained. Search responses sometimes returned irrelevant material, so this is a bounded screen rather than a prevalence estimate or comprehensive literature survey. Eight eligible histories was a target, never a quota.

Eleven full-document download attempts failed before HTTP because the configured proxy connection was unavailable. No full PDF bytes were captured. A separately frozen follow-up preserved four financial web-reader excerpt representations, using twelve calls and twenty-five read commands. These include tool metadata, repeated line windows and explicit synthetic boundaries. They are not complete documents or original publisher bytes. Exact request, response, representation and evidence hashes are recorded.

Independent source-only review found that both financial histories satisfy the four semantic criteria: original error, explicit same-authority replacement, a source-grounded downstream dependency, and an independently supported unaffected control. Their allowed use is an excerpt-conditioned mechanism illustration. Zero histories are admitted as full-prefix benchmark cases. Historical first-public availability is also uncertified. PDF screenshot calls returned text placeholders without inspectable pixels; table alignment was checked in extracted text, with visual verification outstanding.

The two cases

Plug Power's pre-restatement report gives FY2018 common-stockholder loss of -$78.167 million and basic/diluted loss per share of -$0.36. Its later restatement gives -$85.660 million and -$0.39. The earlier source explicitly defines the EPS computation. Services revenue of $22.002 million remains unchanged. The signed loss and fiscal scope were preserved.

Molson Coors' pre-2018-restatement report gives FY2017 attributable income of $1,414.2 million and basic EPS of $6.57. Its later report gives $1,565.6 million and $7.27. Operating cashflow of $1,866.3 million remains unchanged. The source's earnings/share-class account supports dependence; rounded denominators were not treated as exact numerical reconstruction. The earlier report already contains other historical revisions and is not described as a first-ever uncorrected original.

Each case contains five selected assertion records: old and corrected numerator, old and corrected EPS, and one unaffected control. Both direct replacements are supplied, together with the essential old-EPS-to-old-numerator edge. No event boundaries were created from fiscal labels or capture dates.

Executed comparison, in each case:
- No withdrawal: all five records remain active.
- Direct withdrawal: both old records become inactive; the two replacements and the control remain active.
- Dependency withdrawal: the same three records remain active; zero additional records become inactive.

This equality follows from the selected support structure: the dependent assertion already belongs to the direct correction targets. It is a redundant-propagation control, not a measured zero effect on model QA. All original records remain in the ledger. Source capture dates are used only for operational eligibility. Mandatory numeric score fields are unoptimized zero-valued schema placeholders; no decoder, native model inference or answer generation ran.

Engineering and evidence checks

The new replay interface binds exact annotations, source representations, core code and policy outputs. It rejects mismatched hashes/spans, unsupported event-bound fields, missing targets and incompatible correction mappings. Eight new focused tests plus the preserved suite yield 377 passing unit tests. The older 28-command v0.9 verification remains preserved and was not rerun in this checkpoint. Root's external audit checked four source hashes and thirty-two evidence-span occurrences. A separate source/result audit independently checked all ten claims and reproduced both saved replay outputs exactly. Raw annotations are preserved separately; the only reviewed revision adds an explicit excerpt-provenance field before execution.

The filesystem filled during work. Four incomplete temporary download fragments totaling 4,578,344,960 bytes were removed after automatic approval review; verified final models and research records were retained. Normal execution resumed. No paid cloud jobs, messages to third parties or submissions were made.

Implication for the research route

The bounded four-paper check covers MQuAKE, Knowledge Update Playground/MCT, LongMemEval and Mem0. Consequences of edits, dynamic memory operations and relationship invalidation already have precedents. The search was not exhaustive and does not establish absence of 2026 competitors. Broad update propagation or a truth-maintenance layer is insufficient as the novelty claim.

Keep the research question focused on source-grounded interpretation: can a system identify which assertion a correction replaces, distinguish factual correction from ordinary change, withdraw only unsupported dependent answers, and preserve answers with remaining support? The relevant comparison is against a competent direct-target updater and a strong reader given the same evidence. Exact search remains a bounded reference until a gain over restarted iterative inference is demonstrated.

Next work is specified in docs/correction_gate_next_steps_v10.txt and data/provenance/route_decision_v10.json. First restore complete source capture and find cases where source-present downstream support changes without an explicit direct replacement, plus alternative-support controls. Then define a non-temporal support-answering adapter and freeze a matched source/reader protocol. The present temporal QA API cannot honestly answer these numeric records by inventing event intervals. If the expanded natural slice still gives no useful residual gain, narrow the contribution to a well-supported evaluation/resource result rather than increasing solver complexity.

Primary source pairs
https://s29.q4cdn.com/600973483/files/doc_financials/2019/ar/4Q19-10K.pdf
https://s29.q4cdn.com/600973483/files/doc_financials/2020/ar/4Q20-10K.pdf
https://s27.q4cdn.com/826627388/files/doc_financials/2017/ar/MC201710-K.pdf
https://s27.q4cdn.com/826627388/files/doc_financials/2018/ar/molson-coors-10K.pdf

Reproduction
python3 -m unittest discover -s tests -q
python3 scripts/verify_correction_gate_v10.py
The default check verifies packaged metadata and policy records. Exact source/span validation additionally needs the omitted working excerpts and annotations; use --external while those inputs remain available. Full source strings, raw quote-bearing annotations and model binaries are excluded from the distributable checkpoint. Fresh web responses may differ, so hashes alone cannot reconstruct missing inputs. The manuscript addendum is source only; no compiled paper or submission-ready artifact is claimed.
