Shared scored-input contract, version 0.4

Purpose and evidence status

Every decoder must consume the same loaded FrozenScoredInput.problem and the
same full bounded claim bindings. The cache contains source-prefix evidence,
candidates, unary scores, link scores, per-mention null-link scores, penalties,
beta, aliases and explicit scoring provenance. It does not extract candidates,
score them, learn parameters, choose readings, answer a question, or read an
evaluation label. The authored diagnostic and migration singleton smoke modes
are engineering checks. They cannot support a claim about learned scoring or
natural joint-inference gains.

Public API in temporal_state.scored_io

    cache = make_cache(problem, claims, aliases, provenance)
    dump_cache(cache, path)
    cache = load_cache(path)
    digest = cache_digest(cache)

claims is a mapping from (mention_id, reading_id) to TemporalClaim. Every resolved
reading requires exactly one binding; unresolved readings require none.
make_cache and load_cache are the validated constructors. They defensively copy
and freeze the nested objects. The returned fields are problem, claims, aliases,
provenance and digest. Claims and provenance are read-only mappings; aliases are
a tuple of read-only mappings, whose evidence_spans arrays are tuples. The
existing lexical router can read those mappings directly. Code that needs JSON
objects can use json.loads of the persisted file rather than mutate the cache.
cache_digest and dump_cache revalidate a manually constructed/forged dataclass
wrapper. Calling the dataclass constructor directly is not an admission check.

The Problem dataclasses are serialized with every field, including default or
null fields. Claim bindings preserve the full explicit TemporalClaim schema.
The top-level JSON fields are exactly:

    schema_version: "0.4"
    problem: complete Problem object
    claims: [{mention_id, reading_id, claim}, ...]
    aliases: [{subject, alias, source_id, evidence_spans}, ...]
    provenance: the strict object described below
    source_sha256: source ID to UTF-8 text SHA-256
    digest: canonical payload SHA-256 excluding this digest field

No unknown keys are allowed at any schema level. In particular, question,
answer and gold fields cannot enter this inference artifact. Duplicate JSON
keys, duplicate bindings and nonfinite numeric scores are rejected. An empty
claim map is valid only if every reading in the candidate graph is unresolved.

Provenance fields, all explicitly required

evidence_type is authored_diagnostic, migration_singleton_smoke or
pinned_model_scores. The last value describes a future admitted artifact with
explicit model provenance; this implementation does not create model scores.

candidate_model_id and candidate_model_revision identify the candidate backend.
scorer_model_id and scorer_model_revision identify the score-producing backend.
Unknown identifiers/revisions are null, not fabricated revision strings. The
diagnostic and smoke types require both scorer fields to be null. A candidate
model identifier may be known while its revision is unknown; that is not a
pinned model run. A non-null revision always requires its model identifier.

prompt_sha256 is the extraction/scoring prompt artifact digest or null when no
prompt exists. config_sha256 is required and identifies the exact configuration
used to construct and score the graph. This configuration should include score
definitions, preprocessing, candidate constraints and temporal policy. Keeping
the matching prompt/configuration bytes and execution receipts is the runner's
responsibility. The cache validates hash syntax, not inaccessible external
artifacts.

score_definition is nonempty text and must exactly equal Problem.score_provenance.
It must describe the scores actually supplied. For the diagnostic/smoke modes,
state explicitly that the scores are authored or fixed control values. Do not
describe a convenient hand-set score as model confidence or log probability.

Pinned-model mode requires all model identifiers/revisions and the prompt hash.
Common floating revisions (main/latest/master/unversioned/unknown) are rejected.
These checks enforce explicit declarations, not their truth; admission as real
model evidence still requires immutable asset revisions, raw execution outputs,
the scoring procedure and runtime metadata. Renaming provenance cannot turn a
diagnostic result into an experiment.

Source and candidate validation

Every declared Source must be available at or before the Problem cutoff. All
source, mention, reading and link context references must resolve within that
prefix. The contract rejects future records rather than filtering a graph that
could already contain information from the future. Report dates may not follow
their source availability. Exact code-point evidence slices must match source
text. Alias evidence must match an eligible source and reference a subject that
appears in the predicted claims. Hashes and offsets certify consistency; they do
not independently certify publication time, entailment or model honesty.

Each bound claim must have the same source as its mention, the same normalized
subject/relation/scope key as its reading, and the same value string. At least
one claim evidence span must overlap that mention in the shared source. Every
claim context dependency must also be declared by the problem, mention or
reading, so the decoder graph cannot conceal the materializer's dependencies.

For each resolved reading, effective_start equals the claim's start date only
when its two start bounds are equal; otherwise it is null. effective_end follows
the same rule. observed_at is the minimum of state_observed_at or null when the
observation set is empty. All observations and full bounds remain in the bound
claim; the scalar observation does not replace them. An observation is never
projected into an appointment date. Polarity, modality and endpoint uncertainty
remain explicit claim fields and must be respected by the coupled materializer.

The cache uses the decoder's validation engine without enumerating assignments.
Validation raises its count ceilings only enough to inspect the supplied graph;
this does not grant permission to enumerate it. Individual decoder runs still
apply their configured Limits and common feasibility hook. The cache cannot
prove that a caller actually used the common hook; the experiment runner records
the cache digest, temporal-policy configuration and method settings for each run.

Reproducibility and limitations

The payload digest covers source text and metadata, all candidate and link IDs,
every score, null score, beta, penalties, all claim fields and evidence, aliases,
and all provenance fields. Binding order is canonicalized by mention/reading ID
when constructing a cache; loading rejects a noncanonical binding order, so the
loaded digest remains reproducible when saved again. The JSON is UTF-8, keys are sorted, whitespace is
removed for hashing, and NaN/Infinity are forbidden. JSON property order or
formatting changes do not affect the digest; ordered candidate/source arrays
remain part of the exact artifact. A text digest is also checked independently
for each source. Editing any covered content requires a new valid cache digest.

The digest is an integrity identifier, not a signature or external timestamp.
Someone who changes evidence and recomputes every digest creates a different
artifact; the schema cannot prove that the replacement is truthful. Undeclared
model context hidden in free text or an external extraction process cannot be
detected by these structural checks. Preserve the extraction input and raw
outputs separately and exclude evaluation targets at their actual production
boundary, not only at serialization time.

Tests cover stale score edits, source-text corruption, duplicate/nonfinite JSON,
unknown label fields at ten nesting levels, missing/extra bindings, mismatched
source/key/value, future context, unsupported aliases, false exact-date
projections, retained multiple observations, provenance restrictions, deep
immutability and reproducible hashing. No natural development labels are used.
