V23 semantic proposer/verifier and external coverage pilot
2026-10-05; executable preparation, not a model experiment or a coverage proof.

Status and relationship to the 200-item reader set

The new module accepts a natural question and observed source text, then validates
model-proposed complete answer interpretations and verifier judgments. It does
not group an already parsed truth table into its only candidates. No model has
been called by this module, and no class-recall or false-elimination result on
real questions is reported.

The reader agent prepares 100 complete typed-evidence controls and 100 matched,
designed insufficient controls. Their IDs are the coordination roster for this
pilot. They are source-backed, authored control candidates, not 200 independently
reviewed natural-text questions. The semantic item queue preserves the same IDs
and existing request/reference hashes; it marks the missing natural-text and
class-reference work explicitly. Do not silently treat their parsed records as
natural source text, rename the controls as human gold, or fabricate class recall
from the generator's known target. A text/table comparison remains conditional
on a real residual question after a competent typed baseline. Otherwise this
pilot's natural-text arm does not open.

Files and commands

  src/temporal_state/semantic_gate_v23.py
  scripts/analyze_semantic_pilot_v23.py
  tests/test_semantic_gate_v23.py
  data/semantic_pilot_v23/protocol.json
  data/semantic_pilot_v23/proposer_prompt.txt
  data/semantic_pilot_v23/verifier_prompt.txt
  data/semantic_pilot_v23/item_queue.json

From acl2027_temporal_state:
  PYTHONPATH=src python3 -m unittest discover -s tests -p test_semantic_gate_v23.py -q
  python3 scripts/analyze_semantic_pilot_v23.py /external/frozen_bundle.json --output /external/new_receipt.json

The analyzer refuses to overwrite a receipt. It records the input-bundle, module
and analyzer hashes. It does not fetch data, invoke a model, authorize an online
source acquisition, price a run, or conduct hypothesis tests. External callers
must preserve every raw response before schema parsing and record failed runs.
Malformed semantic envelopes are validation errors, not successful abstentions.
Fix their transport separately with the original raw response retained. The risk
review must count any substantive material exposed by malformed reader text.

Input, role and freezing contracts

An item has exactly schema, item_id, question, answer_slots, normalization_spec,
normalization_sha256, corpus_policy and observed_evidence. The complete frozen
normalization instructions are supplied to the model and checked against their
UTF-8 hash; a digest alone is insufficient to tell a model how to normalize.
The model-facing
whitelist excludes item_id and all private reference fields. corpus_policy fixes
an immutable source inventory with hashes, included and excluded regions,
cutoff, and the bounded interpretation scope. observed_evidence contains only
observed text, text hashes, source hashes, source IDs, locators and neutral
per-item evidence IDs. This module checks text hashes against the supplied text
and source hashes against the declared inventory. The ingestion step must
independently check original source bytes, offsets and exact extraction; an
inventory hash copied into a record is not proof of authentic source extraction.

Normalizing an answer is itself a frozen, audited representation decision.
Every candidate contains all requested answer slots, and every claim includes
value, concept, entity, period, unit, dimensions, source_identity and
comparison_relation. Empty dimensions are explicit; other aspects cannot be
missing. source_identity names a declared source. A joint two-period answer is
one candidate, not two independent answers. The mechanical class key hashes the
entire slot-sorted normalized answer, retaining scope even when values match.
The key is exact structured equality, not a learned semantic-equivalence oracle.
The frozen normalizer and independent match review must audit over-splitting or
incorrect equivalences. Claimed proposal citations must already be observed.

Separate proposer and verifier prompts are provided. They are preparation
artifacts, not a completed inference freeze. Before any prediction, freeze each
model/revision, tokenizer/runtime, prompt, decoding, output limit, retries,
arithmetic policy, normalization, exact input roster and private references in
an immutable run record. No default model is guessed here. The runner attaches
input/configuration hash envelopes to raw model output. The verifier hash binds
the precise proposal and source input it saw, not just an item ID. References
never enter proposer, verifier or authorization inputs. The reference author,
proposal/verifier operator and external coverage reviewer have separate roles;
using the same model with different prompts is not independent human review.

Support, elimination and authorization

A support judgment must cite observed evidence for every value and scope aspect.
No future action or unacquired text can serve as a premise. A factual refutation
must cite at least one contradictory aspect; absent evidence is unresolved.
The code validates binding completeness, not semantic entailment of citations.
It rejects an amount-and-dimensions shortcut that omits entity, period, unit or
other required premises. Any observed support/refutation conflict blocks the
whole authorization ledger, merging signs for identical canonical propositions
even when a duplicate uses different candidate/claim IDs or requested slots.
An answer requires every winning claim supported
and every candidate in every different class refuted. A source-consistent valid
representative of an equivalent class is not eliminated merely because another
representative is invalid. Coverage is checked independently after these local
conditions; a single candidate and a perfect local certificate do not clear it.

This code has no planner, dynamic budget callback or persistent unaffordable
cache. It cannot inherit the v22 nonmonotone-cost cache defect. An eventual
controller must charge source access/proposal/verifier/audit/reader work and keep
acquisition cost separate from final rendered prompt length. A shrinking final
prompt is not a refund for previous calls. No new acquisition-optimality claim
follows from this module.

External coverage: scoped human-gated diagnostic

No audit means unresolved. A boolean, a status string, beam saturation, a high
score, candidate count or a local optimization result cannot serve as an audit.
The audit is bound to exact question/evidence input, corpus policy, proposal and
coverage protocol hashes. It requires a separately declared reviewer, inspected
source records with hashes and regions, written findings for six obligations,
and no unresolved classes. All included regions and all declared sources must
be reviewed. Mandatory obligations cannot be waived; cross-source identity can
be marked inapplicable only for a one-source universe. The obligations are:
source inventory; question scope; regions/continuations; cross-source identity;
material conflicts; and answer-class search. A model- or program-authored audit
remains diagnostic and never clears this implementation's authorization gate.

These fields are an auditable external attestation, not proof of semantic
completeness, source entailment, honest disclosure or human identity. In
particular, writing "human" in JSON is not authentication. Review identity and
independence must be checked outside this code. A false or fabricated attestation
can be schema-valid. The module deliberately makes no stronger claim.

The implemented arm is human-gated and bounded by the declared source policy.
It is not an autonomous scalable coverage method. If operationally used, all
review/source-inspection costs must be charged. Reference class inventories used
for scoring are NOT runtime coverage inputs. An oracle arm supplied with gold
reference coverage must be separately named and excluded from automatic claims.
The reference and coverage reviewer roles are distinct and both declarations of
independence are required. An automatic coverage predictor remains unimplemented:
it would need an explicitly frozen policy, on-policy evaluation of false clears
against independent labels, and its own risk analysis. A typed/DTS inventory can
close a narrowly specified structural universe; it cannot establish that a
natural question has no answer-changing interpretation outside that universe.

Evaluation bundle

The input bundle has schema, manifest, items, runs and reviews. Its frozen
manifest binds its declared population, the prospectively fixed engineering
criteria hash, proposer/verifier/coverage protocol hashes, exact public input
hashes for every scheduled item, private reference hashes for those available,
and the independent review protocol hash. A null reference hash means no frozen
reference; a later claim of reviewed performance cannot supply one retroactively.
Actual chronology depends on externally timestamped immutable commits or a
preserved preprediction freeze; this software cannot authenticate timestamps.

Each run retains proposal, verification, coverage audit (possibly null),
requested winner ID (possibly null), and raw reader output. A separate review
binds the exact input and run hashes and the original issuer/history ID. Its
private reference record contains the preprediction class inventory, complete
scoped answer descriptions, source review records and scope-completeness status.
The reference hash must match the manifest before its labels qualify. Separate
postprediction match judgments identify which proposed candidates are genuinely
source-consistent representatives of each reference class. Listing a correct
answer label on an invalid candidate earns no class recall. Every proposed
candidate and every verifier refutation require independent review. The source
review text is intentionally preserved for auditing rather than replaced by a
bare assertion that a finite class list must be complete.

Only declared independent human reviews with frozen preprediction references
qualify for the reported reviewed metrics. Model/program annotations remain
engineering material. This restriction still does not authenticate authors or
prove their semantics; disagreement/adjudication needs its own stored records.
A scope-incomplete reference cannot contribute a class-recall denominator.
Zero reference classes produce undefined recall, not a score of one. Report
eligible-item and reference-class counts alongside the micro class recall and
nonempty per-item full-coverage rate. The false-elimination rate is the fraction
of reviewed questions where at least one reviewed feasible proposed candidate
was refuted. It is not class-loss probability: another valid representative of
the same class may survive. It is not a claim about classes never proposed.
Micro class recall may describe only the complete, reviewed subset even when
other scheduled items remain unreviewed; always display its eligible counts.
Refutation error
also reports a judgment-level denominator.

Emission risk is graded from independently reviewed raw output, regardless of
whether a winner passed the mechanical gate. A malformed answer or bypassed
gate therefore cannot disappear as an empty refusal. For all N scheduled items,
A substantive emissions and E jointly wrong emissions, report A/N, E/N and E/A.
The first two are withheld until every scheduled item has a qualifying review.
E/A is undefined when A=0. Missing runs remain in N and block a complete risk
report. Per-history counts are emitted for subsequent clustered analysis; these
small development metrics do not establish confirmatory confidence or a
selective-risk certificate. General missing-output adjudication remains the
responsibility of the frozen run/review protocol.

Prospective development engineering gate

Before any natural pilot predictions, the root researcher fixed the following
rule in protocol.json and the analyzer. It requires exactly 200 scheduled
natural-source questions, all 200 independently reviewed with complete scoped
reference inventories, at least 100 nonempty reference-class items, micro class
recall at least 0.95, full class coverage on at least 0.95 of nonempty reference
items, zero reviewed false candidate eliminations, and review of every emitted
refutation. The criteria hash is bound into each frozen analysis manifest.
Changing the rule requires a separately versioned prospective amendment.

This is a proposal-development-readiness gate only. The current typed-control
roster and authored unit fixtures do not qualify, regardless of their scores.
If no refutation occurred, the receipt reports
verification_judgment_error_insufficient_opportunities; it does not claim that
judgment error is zero or that the verifier is competent. Nonzero opportunities
produce descriptive error counts, not a validated generalization bound.
Thresholds are engineering choices, not 95% confidence or calibrated selective
risk. Automatic coverage remains unimplemented/unvalidated and the analyzer
always leaves automatic_pipeline_comparison_authorized false. Passing proposal
readiness therefore cannot open the end-to-end or confirmatory comparison.

Tests and current scientific boundary

The tests are authored adversarial fixtures with explicitly fictional reviewer
identities. Passing them establishes contract behavior, not human review,
reader competence, class coverage, low risk, evidence retrieval quality, or a
method win. Real natural-source inputs, preprediction human class references,
model outputs, independent judgment scoring, and external coverage audits are
still required. Do not report the fixture's perfect score as a pilot result.
