V24 blind source review: NFLX and NVDA

Protocol SHA256:
214d0be8ba347c59a77a0a5b3c1f983d822ce9998999c7aae0ecfda654f21ae2

All eight frozen development questions were retained. The source author did
not inspect automatic retrieval outputs or rankings. The four immutable source
files were checked against the protocol's SHA256 hashes and byte counts.
Annotations are model-assisted source review, not independent human gold.

Outcomes: three supported, four partial, one unresolved.

Supported: NFLX's FY2023 free-cash-flow definition and reconciliation;
NFLX's nonvested-option unrecognized compensation and recognition period;
NVDA's aggregate unearned compensation with two distinct award-group periods.

NFLX reports USD6,925,749 thousand FCF, exactly reconciled at displayed
precision as USD7,274,301 thousand operating cash flow less USD348,552
thousand property/equipment purchases and zero change-in-other-assets
adjustment. The definition includes BOTH adjustments; ordinary CFO-minus-PPE
is insufficient to establish the full issuer-defined measure even though
the second adjustment happens to be zero in FY2023.

NFLX reports USD26 million for nonvested options over 0.45 years. NVDA
reports USD6.56 billion aggregate unearned compensation, with 2.6 years for
RSUs/PSUs/market-based PSUs and 1.0 year for ESPP. Neither an NVDA aggregate
period nor an invented award-group allocation of dollars is admissible.

Partial: NFLX currency growth, both segment-presentation questions, and
NVDA currency growth. NFLX reports 7% total-revenue growth and approximately
USD597 million of currency-neutral revenue uplift. Derived growth of about
8.56% and the approximately 1.89-point difference are arithmetic from the
disclosed amounts, not company-reported percentages. The regional constant-
currency percentages describe average monthly revenue per paying member;
they must not be substituted for total revenue growth. NVDA describes
FY2023 revenue as flat, but no constant-currency growth measure was found.
Both companies' pairs report the same number/names of operating segments;
this does not prove that every underlying presentation is unchanged.
NVDA's generic reclassification statements do not establish a segment recast.

Unresolved: NVDA issuer-defined FCF. Searches of the complete decoded text
of both filings find no "free cash flow" string. This does not prove semantic
absence or justify imposing a definition from outside the frozen source pair.

The result records exact byte spans, their hashes, reviewed source scopes,
search counts, paraphrased claims, and observed alternative witnesses. Each
amount includes unit/period premises where needed. The NFLX CFO and PPE
claims include both MD&A and primary cash-flow-statement witnesses.

Reproduce (from repository root, with separately recovered source HTML):
python3 acl2027_temporal_state/scripts/inspect_questions_nflx_nvda_v24.py \
  --external-dir /path/to/source-html \
  --output /path/to/new-review.json

The script refuses output overwrites. It replays the fixed annotations,
checks source identity and displayed arithmetic, and emits no source text.
It is not an automatic semantic verifier or a source-coverage certificate.
Independent source-only model-role review and review of retrieved alternative
evidence remain separate steps. No QA/model predictions, held-out results,
retrieval wins or prevalence estimates are asserted by this artifact.
