v0.9 fresh current-source capture and frozen delivery

The v0.8 checkpoint restored the project metadata and hashes but did not restore
the externally stored raw source responses. We did not label newly downloaded
responses as restored old bytes. A source ID plus the newly observed response
SHA256 identifies each version below; actual retrieval timestamps are retained
even when bytes happen to match the earlier capture.

Before any new request, capture_selection_plan.json froze four histories, in
this order: Disney CEO succession, Intel CEO succession, CVS Health CEO
succession, and the Artemis II/III schedule notices. They are the first three
previously complete yet unannotated leadership histories and the first complete
unannotated plan after Docker/Chrome in the existing frame. All eight exact
v0.7 frame URLs were retained. Blocked sources would remain blocked without
outcome-based substitutions. The model pilot was assigned the first two fully
ready histories in this order before any model outcomes existed.

Eight new unauthenticated HTTPS transfers ran on 2026-10-03 from
03:23:36.804000 to 03:23:39.365828 UTC. All eight returned HTTP 200 with curl
exit 0 and passed the inherited provisional usability checks. No HTTP failure,
automatic retry, substitute URL, sign-in or challenge bypass occurred. Total
raw response size is 1,164,783 bytes; extracted text totals 86,929 UTF-8 bytes.
This is four ready histories/eight prefixes, not eight independent histories
or benchmark admission.

The wrapper permits at most four parallel transfers, 30 seconds per transfer,
10 seconds for connection establishment, 8 MiB per response, five redirects,
HTTPS-only including redirects, and no authentication or automatic retry. It
refuses existing manifests/source directories and keeps all external bytes
outside the distributable project. The exact wrapper and reused extractor
hashes are bound by the capture manifest. New runs require new explicit
manifest and external-directory destinations; their bytes may differ.

The repaired v0.8 extractor is reused without alteration. It retains visible
form body text, including the CVS investor article, and excludes scripts,
styles, noscript, SVG, navigation, footer and template tags. It preserves all
remaining current body text; it is not an article-only extractor. Unicode is
normalized to NFC, whitespace collapsed within nonempty block-separated
lines, and text written as UTF-8/LF. PDF text uses the recorded pdftotext
reading-order recipe. A retained form or navigation-like element may still
contain site controls or unrelated content: these are flagged, not removed.

Four raw-response hashes match v0.8: both Intel and both CVS sources. Both
Disney raw responses differ but their extracted texts match v0.8. Both NASA
raw responses and extracted texts differ. Thus six of eight extracted-text
hashes match. The old full texts were unavailable, so we cannot make a
byte-level old/new content-diff claim for NASA. Current NASA text contains
extensive navigation and related-content cards with relative-age labels.
These remain in requests and must not be mistaken for assertions dated to
the 2024 release. Each NASA article begins on line 311 in its current
extraction, after 310 lines of site content.

The NASA January page displays March 20, 2024 as its update date. The December
page displays January 30, 2025, whereas the frame's update field was null.
The new observation is recorded in the separate content_review.json rather
than rewriting the frozen discovery frame. This is source metadata, not
authenticated first-public availability.

The first Intel source is a five-page official archive PDF with a January 13,
2021 article date. Its PDF metadata reports creation/modification in January
2025, consistent with the archive path but not independent historical
authentication. The first page was rendered and visually checked; the title,
article date and effective-date paragraph are legible and consistent with
extraction. This was a one-page visual spot check, not full visual validation
of every page. Repeated PDF navigation strings and icons remain in the text.
The default runtime pdfinfo wrapper could not load its libpoppler dependency;
the installed /usr/bin/pdfinfo and /usr/bin/pdftoppm succeeded. No PDF was
authored and no source bytes were altered.

The separate content review only checks article presence, obvious capture
failures, and site/version cues. It is agent review, not human gold annotation
or an independent blind evaluation. The inherited content_usability field
still describes provisional fetch checks; source-level review results reside
in content_review.json. Full claim annotation and references belong to the
subsequent root-owned workflow.

At 03:26:43.798445 UTC on 2026-10-03, delivery_manifest.json froze two
one-source batches per history in reported-publication order. Prefix 1
contains the first current document; prefix 2 contains both current documents.
These are author-defined controlled document streams. Delivery, retrieval,
publication, update and event times remain distinct. No current document is
presented as an unedited historical original or reconstructed past public
knowledge. No annotations or reference questions had been created for this
new batch when delivery was frozen.

Disney and Intel are the two predeclared model-pilot histories because all
four selected histories were ready. Their first source texts are respectively
9,732 and 8,838 UTF-8 bytes. CVS has 7,346 first-source bytes and Artemis has
12,103; these sizes do not justify substituting them after model outcomes.
Strong-model selection and annotation are separate root-owned steps.

After delivery was frozen, prepare_source_stream_v09.py constructed eight
source-only requests using the exact v0.8 request schema and fields. Each
request contains the cumulative frozen full text, source IDs, version/text
hashes and parent hashes. It contains no questions, annotations, previous
outputs or model-pilot items. Request bytes reside outside the project under
tmp/source_stream_v09/working/requests; request_manifest.json retains their
hashes, byte counts and source bindings. The builder refuses overwrite and
validates every text hash and prefix binding before writing any request.
Disney p1/p2 requests are 10,440/20,492 bytes; Intel p1/p2 are 9,689/23,700;
CVS p1/p2 are 8,031/21,852; Artemis p1/p2 are 13,143/25,908. These are UTF-8
bytes, not measured model tokens.

Full responses, headers, extracted text and per-source receipts reside under
/workspace/scratch/bdef663e3dfc/tmp/source_stream_v09/fulltext/{source_id}/.
The project contains metadata, hashes and scripts, not redistributed complete
external sources. Public access does not establish redistribution rights.
Exact byte reconstruction requires the external capture; hashes alone are
insufficient. No historical or complete source-availability claim follows
from a successful current capture.

Offline verification:
  python scripts/verify_source_capture_v09.py

When original current-capture external bytes are still present:
  python scripts/verify_source_capture_v09.py --require-external

The metadata-only command verifies selection, lineage, scope and prefix
bindings without HTTP/model calls or reading full external texts. The second
command additionally verifies all 24 raw/header/text file hashes and all
eight exact request hashes and source-only content contracts. Both modes
passed for this checkpoint. They are provenance checks, not model accuracy
or source-completeness measurements.
