Typed reader declared-ASCII amendment v15.1
2026-10-04; explicit post-source-inspection technical amendment

Reason and preserved failure

The parent study reported that frozen attempt01 rejected six of twelve source
objects solely because their XML declarations specified ASCII. This left 14,778
nonFraction occurrences unprocessed in that attempt. The failed outcome, frozen
v15 module, protocol, tests and result files are preserved. This amendment is not
a replacement of the original outcome or a pristine pre-inspection protocol.
The amended all-source run must receive its own freeze and attempt/result paths.

The implementation agent received the failure category and counts from the
parent. It did not read natural filing bodies, numeric values, questions,
references, or QA outputs to develop this patch. There was no output-dependent
transform, concept, entity, year, unit, query or candidate-selection change.

Changed code and exact scope

The new src/temporal_state/typed_reader_v15_1.py starts as a byte-for-byte copy of
the frozen 37,629-byte src/temporal_state/typed_reader_v15.py, whose SHA-256 is:
  b7a64c9655999524fa42ec9fa573bf350d7272d91f79f9cee8e0450276cdf0b5

Only the declared-encoding gate and its descriptive messages/docstring/comment
are amended. In addition to the existing UTF-8/default handling, accept explicit
ASCII or US-ASCII declarations (case-insensitive) when every original source
byte is ASCII. If any byte exceeds 0x7f under such a declaration, reject the
object before producing usable records. Unsupported declared encodings and
UTF-16/UTF-32 byte representations remain rejected. XML declarations themselves
are neither removed nor rewritten; bytes are never transcoded or substituted.
The full source hash, byte counts, half-open offsets, span hashes and namespace
dependencies refer to the exact original source object.

An ASCII document can legitimately contain numeric character references that
decode to non-ASCII XML character data; those references contain only ASCII
source bytes. Expat performs the same XML reference interpretation as before.
The source anchors continue to point to the original reference spelling.
No other parser, numeric, context, unit, dimension, lookup or uncertainty
semantics are changed. The returned schema/API remain the same; the new module
path/hash and separately frozen study protocol identify this amendment.

Authored validation, separate from natural-source evaluation

tests/test_typed_reader_encoding_v15_1.py contains eight authored encoding tests:
ASCII/US-ASCII declarations; unchanged UTF-8 literal Unicode; rejection of
non-ASCII bytes under an ASCII declaration; numeric character references;
unsupported declared encodings; UTF-16 bytes; original source/dependency hashes
and offsets; and default UTF-8 without an encoding declaration.

Executed command:
  PYTHONPATH=src python3 -m unittest tests.test_typed_reader_encoding_v15_1 -q
Observed: 8 tests passed in 0.003 seconds.

The same test module provides an explicit legacy-control loader. It loads fresh
copies of the two frozen v15 test modules while temporarily binding their reader
import to the amended module. It asserts that the test functions are bound to
the amended reader and that the suite contains exactly the previous 68 controls.
Neither frozen test file nor the original reader file is edited. The temporary
import binding is restored before executing the returned suite.

Executed command:
  PYTHONPATH=src python3 -m tests.test_typed_reader_encoding_v15_1 --legacy-controls
Observed: all 68 previous authored controls passed against v15.1 in 0.029 seconds.

These are 8 encoding tests plus a replay of 68 existing authored controls, not
76 new tests and not natural QA results. They do not establish standards
conformance, financial correctness, novelty, generalization or answer quality.
The independent source runner must separately record and verify the amended
all-twelve-source attempt, preserving the original six-object technical failure.
