Supplied-judgment witness-selection scaffold v0.14

Status and boundary

This executable scaffold implements a small part of the candidate objective in
method_hypothesis_v14.txt. It is not an end-to-end retrieval algorithm, a trained
model, a verifier, an automatic hypothesis generator, a new theorem, or evidence
of improvement on natural data. It does not read the development corpus, questions,
references or predictions. Its tests use entirely authored source fragments.
The hypothesis note and frozen study artifacts are unchanged.

Files

src/temporal_state/witness_selection_v14.py
tests/test_witness_selection_v14.py
docs/witness_selection_v14.txt

Run from the active research directory:

  PYTHONPATH=src python -m unittest discover -s tests -p 'test_witness_selection_v14.py' -v

Input contract and missing components

The caller supplies immutable source objects, candidate hypotheses and required
claims, fixed nonnegative rational weights, an explicit symmetric incompatibility
relation represented by canonical pairs, whole source-span bundles, and anchored
three-valued source judgments. Each judgment specifies all source spans necessary
for its assertion, a hypothesis/claim, a verdict and provenance. Contradictory
judgments are the externally supplied separator map; no automatic semantic test
constructs that map. Authored or oracle inputs must be disclosed as such.

The source-object text hash is checked. Source offsets and physical/source locators
are retained. These checks establish byte/text identity and coverage, not semantic
correctness or historical authenticity. Judgments can still be wrong, including
confidently rejecting the true interpretation. Automatic proposal recall, missing
alternatives, verifier accuracy and real attachment extraction remain unsolved.

Unknown alternatives remain unresolved by default. Clearing that flag requires
caller-supplied assessment provenance and is never an effect of selection or beam
pruning. The scaffold cannot validate this external coverage assessment. An authored
finite world does not provide natural-data coverage certification.

Evidence and inference

Selection occurs only through indivisible Bundle objects. Overlapping or adjacent
source spans are unioned within the same immutable source; unselected gaps and
different sources remain separate. A judgment activates only when every required
span is actually received, regardless of bundle names. Joint witnesses can be
encoded as one indivisible multi-span bundle. Judgments may also require spans
spread across selected bundles, exposing complementarities rather than assuming
them away.

Missing evidence and explicit unresolved judgments remain unresolved. Any explicit,
uncontested contradiction of a required claim excludes that hypothesis. If support
and contradiction conflict for one claim, its status becomes unresolved, a conflict
is recorded, and the selection cannot authorize an answer. No silent tie breaking
decides which supplied semantic judgment was true.

Pair loss sums fixed products of weights for incompatible surviving pairs. Weights
are never renormalized over survivors. Zero-weight alternatives still block an
answer when incompatible; zero loss is not equivalent to logical agreement.

Admissible selections fit the budget, retain at least one hypothesis and contain
no source-judgment conflict. Answer authorization further requires no incompatible
survivors, complete positive support for at least one surviving hypothesis, and
no material unknown alternatives. Compatible harmless parses need not all be
positively proved. The supplied incompatibility relation is therefore critical;
omitted answer-changing pairs can make this gate falsely permissive.

Cost contract

The caller supplies a Cost counter with a named unit and provenance. The counter
receives canonical union text including the caller's prompt prefix and all source
labels, offsets and hashes. No built-in word/character-to-token conversion exists.
To claim a native full-input token budget, the counter must apply the real reader
chat template and tokenize the complete actual prompt. This scaffold does not
provide or verify that integration. Tests deliberately use labeled character-cost
fixtures and cannot be reported as token-budget experiments.

Union spans are counted once in the rendered input, but labels are never free.
Merging intervals can remove label overhead; marginal cost need not be positive.
The budget covers this supplied representation only. Hypothesis generation,
source/OCR access, map construction, verification, indexing and repeated selection
evaluation have external costs that must be separately recorded in a real study.

Selection and exact debugging

greedy_select uses marginal pair-loss reduction divided by max(1, marginal cost),
then answerability, supported-claim progress, lower total cost and lexical IDs for
deterministic ties. It can add positive support after loss reaches zero. It cannot
discover every jointly useful combination when each constituent has zero immediate
gain. It may also miss better budget allocations. No approximation guarantee or
optimality claim is made, including when overlap changes label costs.

exhaustive_tiny_optimum enumerates every subset of at most 16 bundles. It minimizes
pair loss among admissible selections, breaking ties by answerability, cost, bundle
count and IDs. require_answerable=True explicitly restricts the feasible set; it
returns None if no selection meets all gates. Without that option, a returned
selection may abstain. This is exact only for supplied finite maps and costs, not
the natural source truth or an unenumerated hypothesis space. It is a tiny debugging
comparator, not a scalable solver or new optimization result.

Meaningful authored checks

The focused tests cover fixed-weight loss, missing/unresolved evidence, joint
witness activation, indivisibility under a tight budget, span union and charged
labels, source identity, bundle-name invariance, conflicting judgments, eliminating
all hypotheses, missing positive support, unknown alternatives, zero-weight logical
conflicts, deterministic ties and invalid provenance/anchors/cost units. A deliberate
complementarity challenge makes greedy fail while exhaustive search finds a feasible
supported answer. That failure documents a limitation rather than being hidden.

The next substantive step is independent construction and validation of candidate
bindings and source judgments, with comparison to structure, relation-aware coverage
and equally funded sufficiency/intent/ambiguity baselines. Passing these unit tests
does not establish that this method is needed, novel, publishable or effective.
